Full text of St. Faustina Kowalska Diary - Divine Mercy in My Soul
       
DIARY Of Saint Maria Faustina Kowalska 



Divine Mercy in My Soul 



Marian Press 

Stockbridge, MA 01263 



2005 



Table of Contents 

vii 



Preface 




Original Preface to the Polish Edition, 1981 

Introduction to the Polish Edition, 1981 
Chronology of Events in the Life of Saint Maria Faustina - Helen Kowalska 

Diary 

Notebook I 

Notebook 222 

Notebook III 




Notebook IV 445 

Notebook V 476 

Notebook VI 565 

My Preparation for Holy Communion 636 

Abbreviations Used in the Footnotes 646 

Footnotes 647 

Index 693 



Preface 

The diary of [Saint Maria] Faustina is the record of her life experience - the 
journey of her soul. She was graced by a special communion with God, and the diary 
expresses her conviction that communion ought to be the center of our lives. Since the 
1940’s, the Marians of the Immaculate Conception, St. Stanislaus Kostka Province, have 
shared this conviction and have undertaken the promulgation of God’s mercy throughout the 
world, particularly as it has been proclaimed by [Saint] Faustina. 



2 




In 1979, convinced of the importance of the diary, the Marians were 
instrumental in bringing it - in its rough typewritten form - out of Poland. We made the 
necessary corrections to the manuscript and published a critical Polish edition that has been 
promulgated throughout the world to Polish speaking people. 

At the same time, we commissioned a couple in Poland, Adam and Danuta 
Pasicki, to translate the diary into English. Once they had completed this first, literal 
translation we asked Archbishop George Pearce, S.M., to re-translate portions of it in 
accordance with proper English terminology for the various theological concepts and spiritual 
experiences referred to throughout the diary. Archbishop Pearce was supported in this 
second translation by Fathers George Kosicki, C.S.B., Gerald Farrell, M.M., Leo McCauley, 
S.J., and an Oblate, Francis Bagan, O.M.I. 

When this text was completed, it was given to Father Seraphim Michalenko, 
M.I.C., who was Director of the Divine Mercy Department from 1979-1986. Together with 
Sister Sophia Michalenko, C.M.G.T., he carefully reviewed the translation, often referring 
back to the original Polish to ensure exactness of expression. Father Joseph Sielski, M.I.C., 
and Father Kazimierz Chwalek, M.I.C., were then asked to review the text, re-reading it for 
authentic agreement with the Polish. 

Finally, in the first part of 1987, the text was returned to the Divine Mercy 
Department, [then] headed by Father George Kosicki, C.S.B. Through his efforts, the tireless 
work of Sister Sophia Michalenko, C.M.G.T., and the assistance of Vincent Flynn, the diary 
was subjected to a complete editing, re-typing, and proofing process for clarity of expression 
and readability according to current English grammar and usage. The index, listing the main 
themes of the diary, was compiled by Father Eugene Ozimek and developed by Fr. George 
Kosicki and Sister Sophia. The design, composition, and mechanicals were then completed 
by Charles Parise and Pat Menatti, and the diary was printed by the Marian Press at the 
Marian Helpers Center. To all involved with this work, we wish to express our deepest 
gratitude and the assurance of our prayers. 

Since the polish diary is the official text, we have made every effort to be truly 
faithful to it, and to retain the variousl shades of meaning implied in the theological and 
spiritual terms used by [Saint] Faustina - a definite challenge, indeed! In translating the 
diary, we dealt with the same kind of challenge that faces the translators of Sacred Scripture. 
Some terms allow for a variety of expressions even though the meanings are the same, and 
the final translation thus becomes a personal choice of style and expression on the part of 
the translator. 



For the most part, the texts that have already been published in the popular 
devotional booklets are the same as those used in the diary, though in some instances, there 
again may be slight differences of style and expression. 

Special Features of this New English Edition 

In the final editing process, inconsistencies of verb tense, capitalization, and 
punctuation were standardized as much as possible without losing [Saint] Faustina’s unique 
style and powerful simplicity of expression. Our Lord’s words to [Saint] Faustina were set in 
bold type for emphasis, while Our Lady’s words were set in italics. The page numbers of 



3 




[Saint] Faustina’s original notebooks were also set in bold type, and paragraphs thought to 
be overly long or diversified in content were split into shorter paragraph units for readability. 

The footnotes, too, have been reexamined, and additional clarifying notes have 
been added where necessary. Notes that were no longer pertinent, in light of changes 
incorporated into the English translation, were deleted; and, wherever possible, explanatory 
notes were placed in [square brackets] in the text itself to avoid unnecessary breaks in the 
reading. 



Our deepest hope is that this diary may truly be a vehicle of grace for all who 
read it, for in reading it we can see that the mercy of God lives forever. Above, all, we hope 
that all people will be struck by the truth that mankind will not have peace until it turns 
with trust to God’s mercy. 

May each one of you experience the power of the Blood and Water that poured 
out from the Heart of Jesus as a fount of mercy, and may each of you find confidence and 
trust in this ever-present mercy of God! 



Gratefully in the Lord, 

Very Rev. Richard J. Drabik, M.I.C. 

Provincial Superior 



Eden Hill, Stockbridge, Massachusetts 
March 19, 1987 

PREFACE 



ORIGINAL PREFACE TO THE POLISH EDITION, 1981 

In presenting this edition of the Dairy of [Saint] Maria Faustina Kowalska I am fully 
aware that I am introducing a document of Catholic mysticism of exceptional worth, not only for the 
Church in Poland, but also for the Universal Church. This publication is the critical edition, and thus 
reliable. It is the work of the Postulator of Sister Faustina, under the direction of the authority of the 
Archdiocese of Cracow. 

The Diary, whose object is devotion to The Divine Mercy, has acquired tremendous 
interest lately for two reasons: 

Firstly: The Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, in its revision more 
than two years ago [1978], withdrew the censures and reservations advanced earlier by the Holy See in 
relation to the writings of Sister Faustina. The withdrawal of the “Notification” caused the devotion to 
The Divine Mercy, as presented in the Diary, to grow in renewed vitality on all continents, as is 



4 




evidenced by the numerous testimonies received by the Postulator and the Congregation of which 
Sister Faustina was a member. 

Secondly: The recent encyclical of Pope John Paul II, Dives in Misericordia, happily 
fixed the attention of the Church, and even of the secular world, on this most wonderful attribute of 
God and extraordinary aspect of the economy of salvation, which is The Divine Mercy. 

A comprehensive study in order to indicate the affinity of ideas found in the Diary of 
[Saint] Maria Faustina and this encyclical (not to mention their probably interdependence) would be 
most welcome. These salient points certainly are numerous, for they draw their inspiration from the 
same source; namely, from the revelation of God and the teaching of Christ. 

Furthermore, they come from the same spiritual environment, from Cracow, the city 
which, as far as I know, possesses the oldest church dedicated to the honor of The Divine Mercy. It is 
likewise necessary to stress that it was Karol Cardinal Wojtyla, the Archbishop of Cracow at that time, 
who made efforts to begin The Process of Beatification of Sister Faustina Kowalska and did 
inaugurate that process. 

In this light, the Diary of [Saint] Maria Faustina took on exceptional meaning for 
Catholic spirituality; and that is why it was fitting to prepare a credible edition, in order to prevent the 
distortion of the text by persons who perhaps are acting in good faith, but who are not adequately 
prepared for such work. Thus, publications containing differences and even contradictions, such as 
took place with the spiritual diary of St. Therese of the Child Jesus, The Story of a Soul , can be 
avoided. 



The reader, after just a superficial skimming of the Diary, may be struck by the 
simplicity of the language and even by the spelling and stylistic errors, but he should not forget that 
the author of the Diary had but a limited elementary education. The theology alone which is found in 
the Diary awakens in the reader a conviction of its uniqueness; and if one considers the contrast 
between [Saint] Faustina’s education and the loftiness of her theology, the contrast alone indicates the 
special influence of Divine Grace. 

I would like to mention here my meeting with a well-known contemporary mystic, 
Sister Speranza, who in Collevalenza, not far from Todi [Italy], founded the sanctuary of “The Most 
Merciful Love,” the site of numerous pilgrimages. I asked Sister Speranza whether she had heard of 
the writings of Sister Faustina and what she thought of them. She answered me with simplicity: “The 
writings contain a wonderful teaching, but reading them one must remember that God speaks to 
philosophers in the language of philosophers and to simple souls in the language of simple ones, and 
only to these last does He reveal truths hidden from the wise and prudent of this world.” 

To conclude this preface, permit me to mention yet one more personal recollection 
from the year 1952, when for the first time I took part in a solemn beatification ceremony in St. Peter’s 
Basilica. After the festivity, I was asked by some person who also participated, “Who exactly was this 
blessed one?” The question embarrassed me very much, because at the moment I could not recall who 
those blessed were, although I knew full well that the real purpose of a beatification is to present to the 
people of God a model to consider and imitate in their lives. 

Among the candidates for beatification and canonization Poland has presently two 
persons familiar to the whole world which knows who they are, what they accomplished in their 
lifetime and what sort of message their lives proclaim. They are Blessed [now Saint] Maximilian 



5 




Kolbe, the martyr of love, and Sister [now Saint] Faustina Kowalska, the Apostle of The Divine 
Mercy. 

Rome, December 20, 1980 



+ Andrew M. Deskur 
Titular Archbishop of Tene 



INTRODUCTION 

1. Saint Maria Faustina Kowalska, known today the world over as the 
“Apostle of the Divine Mercy,” is numbered by theologians among the outstanding mystics of 
the Church. 



She was the third of ten children born into a poor and pious peasant family 
in Glogowiec, a village in the heart of Poland. At her baptism in the nearby Parish Church of 
Swinice Warckie she was given the name “Helena.” From childhood she distinguished 
herself by her piety, love of prayer, industriousness and obedience as well as by her great 
sensitivity to human misery. She had hardly three years of schooling, and at the age of 
fourteen she left the family hearth to help her parents and to earn her own livelihood serving 
as a domestic in the nearby cities of Aleksandrow and Lodz. 

When she was only seven (two years before her First Holy Communion), Helen 
already sensed in her soul the call to embrace the religious life. When later she made her 
desire known to her parents, they categorically did not acquiesce in her entering a convent. 
Because of this situation Helen strove to stifle this divine call within her. Pressed on, 
however, by a vision of the suffering Christ and by the words of His reproach: “How long 
shall I put up with you and how long will you keep putting Me off?” (Diary, 9), she bagan to 
search for a convent to join. She knocked on many a convent door, but nowhere was she 
accepted. Finally on August 1, 1925, Helen crossed the threshold of the cloister in the 
convent of the Congregation of Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy on Zytnia Street in Warsaw. In 
her Diary she declared: “It seemed to me that I had stepped into the life of Paradise. A 
single prayer was bursting forth from my heart, one of thanksgiving” (Diary, 17). 

After a few weeks she experienced nonetheless a strong temptation to transfer 
to a different congregation in which there would be more time for prayer. It was then the Lord 
Jesus, manifesting to her His wounded and tortured face, said: “It is you who will cause Me 



6 




this pain if you leave this convent. It is to this place that I called you and nowhere else, and 
[it is here] I have prepared many graces for you” (Diary, *\9). 

Upon her entrance to the Congregation Helen received the name Sr. Maria 
Faustina. Her novitiate she spent in Cracow, and there, in the presence of Bishop Stanislaus 
Rospond, she pronounced her first religious vows, and five years later, she made her 
perpetual profession of the vows of chastity, poverty and obedience. She was assigned to 
work in a number of the Congregation’s houses, but for a longer period in those of Cracow, 
Plock and Vilnius, fulfilling the duties of cook, gardener and doorkeeper. 

To all external appearances nothing betrayed her extraordinarily rich mystical 
life. She zealously went about her duties, she faithfully observed all the religious rules, she 
was recollected and kept silent, all the while being natural, cheerful, full of kindness and of 
unselfish love of neighbor. 

Her entire life was concentrated on constant striving for an even fuller union 
with God and on self-sacrificing cooperation with Jesus in the work of saving souls. “My 
Jesus” - she avowed in her Diary - “You know that from my earliest years I have wanted to 
become a great saint; that is to say, I have wanted to love You with a love so great that there 
would be no soul who has hitherto loved You so” (Diary, 1372,). 

It is her Diary that reveals to us the depths of her spiritual life. An attentive 
reading of these records offers a picture of the high degree of her soul’s union with God - the 
great extent of God’s company keeping with her soul, as well as her efforts and struggles on 
the way to Christian perfection. The Lord endowed her with great graces - with the gift of 
contemplation, with a deep knowledge of the mystery of the mercy of God, wish visions, 
revelations, the hidden stigmata, with the gift of prophecy and of reading into human souls, 
and also with the rare gift of mystical espousals. As lavishly gifted as she was, this is what 
she wrote: “Neither graces, nor revelations, nor raptures, nor gifts granted to a soul make it 

perfect, but rather the intimate union of the soul with God My sanctity and perfection is 

based upon the close union of my will with the will of God” (Diary, 1 107,). 

The austere lifestyle and exhausting fasts that she imposed upon herself even 
before joining the Congregation, weakened her organism to such an extent that already 
during her postulantship it became necessary to send her to Skolimow near Warsaw to 
restore her to health. Towards the end of her first year of novitiate, she was visited by 
unusually painful mystical experiences of the so-called dark night, and later by the spiritual 
and moral sufferings related to the accomplishment of the mission she was receiving from 
Christ the Lord. [St.] Faustina laid down her life in sacrifice for sinners and on this account 
she also sustained diverse sufferings, in order by means of them to come to the aid of their 
souls. During the last years of her life, inner sufferings of the so-called “passive night” of the 
soul and bodily diseases grew in intensity. The spreading tuberculosis attached her lungs 
and alimentary canal. For this reason, twice she underwent several months’ treatment in the 
hospital on Pradnik Street in Cracow. 

Physically ravaged, but fully mature spiritually, she died in the opinion of 
sanctity, mystically united with God, on October 5, 1938, hardly 33 years old, having been a 
religious for 13 years. Her mortal remains were laid to rest in the common tomb in the 
convent’s cemetery in Cracow-Lagiewniki. In 1966, during the informative process towards 
Sister Faustina’s beatification, they were transferred to the convent chapel. 



7 




To this simple, uneducated, but courageous woman religious, who trusted Him 
without limit, Our Lord Jesus consigned the great mission to proclaim His message of mercy 
directed to the whole world: “Today,” He told her, “I am sending you with My mercy to 
the people of the whole world. I do not want to punish aching mankind, but I desire to 
heal it, pressing it to My merciful Heart” (Diary, 1588). You are the secretary of My 

mercy; I have chosen you for that office in this and the next life” (Diary, 1605,) “to 

make known to souls the great mercy that I have for them, and to exhort them to trust 
in the bottomless depth of My mercy” (Diary, 1567/ 

2. ST. FAUSTINA’S MISSION. In short, her mission consists in reminding 
us of the immemorial, but seemingly forgotten, truths of our faith about God’s merciful love 
for men, and in conveying to us new forms of devotion to The Divine Mercy, the practice of 
which is to lead to the revival of the spiritual life in the spirit of Christian trust and mercy. 

St. Faustina’s Diary, which Jesus Christ ordered her to keep during the last four 
years of her life, is a kind of journal in which the author recorded current or retrospective 
events related primarily to the “encounters” of her soul with God. A rigorous, scholarly 
analysis of her notebooks was necessary to extract from them everything which is 
considered essential to her mission. 

This work was accomplished by an eminent and highly esteemed theologian, 
the Rev. Professor, Ignacy Rozycki. A brief summary of his scholarly and theological work is 
published under the title The Divine Mercy: Basic Characteristics of the Divine Mercy 
Devotion. 



Compared to this important theological work, all previous publications on the 
Divine Mercy devotion, related to us by St. Faustina, seem to be concerned only with some 
of its elements or with more secondary matters. For example, in some instances, emphasis 
is placed on the Litany or the Novena to The Divine Mercy, leaving aside the Hour of Mercy. 

Fr. Rozycki draws our attention to this fact by saying: “Before we acquaint 
ourselves with the specific elements of the Divine Mercy devotion, we need to notice that 
among them we won’t find any of the well-known or beloved novenas or litanies.” 

The basis for selecting these, and not other prayers or religious practices, as 
the new forms of the Divine Mercy devotion, are the specified promises attached to them, 
which the Lord Jesus promised to fulfill on the condition of one’s trust in God’s goodness and 
of mercy towards one’s neighbors. Rev. Rozycki points out that there are five elements of 
the devotion to The Divine Mercy. 

a. The Image of the Merciful Jesus. Its pattern was revealed in the vision St. 
Faustina had on February 22, 1931, in her convent cell at Plock. “In the evening, when I was 
in my cell,” she recorded in the Diary, “I saw the Lord Jesus clothed in a white garment. One 
hand [was] raised in the gesture of blessing, the other was touching the garment at the 
breast. From beneath the garment, slightly drawn aside from at breast, there were 

emanating two large rays, one red, the other pale After a while, Jesus said to me, 

‘Paint an image according to the pattern you see, with the signature: Jesus, I trust in 

You’” (Diary, 47/ “I want this image to be solemnly blessed on the first Sunday 

after Easter; that Sunday is to be the Feast of Mercy” (Diary, 49/ 



8 




For this reason, the content of this image is closely related to the liturgy of that 
Sunday. On this day, the Church reads the Gospel according to St. John about the risen 
Christ appearing in the Upper Room and about the institution of the Sacrament of Penance 
(Jn 20:19-29). Consequently, this image represents the Savior risen from the dead who 
brings peace to people by means of the forgiveness of sins at the price of His passion and 
death on the cross. 

The rays of blood and water that flow from the Heart that was pierced by a 
spear (not visible on the image) and the scars caused by the wounds of crucifixion call to 
mind the events of Good Friday (Jn 19:17-18; 33-37). The Image of the Merciful Savior, 
therefore, combines the two Gospel events that best bespeak the fullness of God’s love for 
mankind. 



The two rays are a distinctive feature of this image of Christ. The Lord Jesus, 
when asked about their meaning, explained: “The pale ray stands for the Water which 

makes souls righteous. The red ray stands for the Blood which is the life of souls. ... Happy 
is the one who will dwell in their shelter” (Diary, 299). The Sacraments of Baptism and 
Penance purify the soul, and the Eucharist most abundantly nourishes it. Thus, the two rays 
signify the Holy Sacraments and all the graces of the Holy Spirit, whose biblical symbol is 
water, as well as the New Covenant of God with men in the Blood of Christ. 

The image of the Merciful Jesus is often called the “Image of The Divine 
Mercy,” which is appropriate, since it is precisely in Christ’s Paschal Mystery that God’s love 
for humankind was most explicitly revealed. 

The image not only represents The Divine Mercy, but also serves as a sign that 
is to recall the Christian obligation of trust in God and of active love toward neighbor. By 
Christ’s will the image bears a signature comprised of these words: “Jesus, I trust in You.” 

“This image,” Jesus also declared, “is to be a reminder of the demands of My mercy, 
because even the strongest faith is of no avail without works” (Diary, 742). 

To the veneration of the image understood in this way, as relying upon the 
Christian attitude of trust and mercy, Our Lord attached special promises, namely, of eternal 
salvation, of great progress in the way of Christian perfection, of the grace of a happy death, 
and of all other possible graces which people will ask of Him with trust: “By means of this 
image I shall be granting many graces to souls; so let every soul have access to it” 
(Diary, 570). 



b. The Feast of The Divine Mercy. It ranks highest among all the elements of 
The Divine Mercy devotion revealed to [St.] Faustina. Its institution was requested by the 
Lord Jesus for the first time in Plock, in 1 931 , while He was communicating His will regarding 
the painting of the Image: “I desire that there be a Feast of Mercy. I want this image, 
which you will paint with a brush, to be solemnly blessed on the first Sunday after 
Easter; that Sunday is to be the Feast of Mercy” (Diary, 49/ 

The choice of the first Sunday after Easter for the Feast of Mercy has a very 
deep theological significance, which points to the close relationship between the Paschal 
Mystery of the redemption and the mystery of The Divine Mercy. The integral relationship is 
further emphasized by the Novena of Chaplets to The Divine Mercy which begins on Good 
Friday as a preparation for the Feast. 



9 




This feast is not only a day in particular for worshipping God in His mystery of 
mercy, but also a time of grace for all people. The Lord Jesus said: “I desire that the Feast 
of Mercy be a refuge and shelter for all souls, and especially for poor sinners” (Diary, 
699). “Souls perish in spite of My bitter Passion. I am giving them the last hope of 
salvation, that is, recourse to My Mercy. If they will not adore My mercy, they will 
perish for all eternity” (cf. Diary, 965, 998). 

The greatness of this feast is measured by the measure of extraordinary 
promises that the Lord attached to this feast: Jesus said Whoever approached the 
Fount of Life on this day will be granted complete remission of sins and punishment” 
{Diary, 300), and also, “On this day the very depths of My tender mercy are open. I pour 
out a whole ocean of graces upon those souls who approach the fount of My Mercy. 

Let no soul fear to draw near to Me, even though its sins be as scarlet” {Diary, 

699). 



To profit from those great gifts we must fulfill the conditions of the Divine Mercy 
devotion (trust in God’s goodness and active love toward neighbor), be in the state of 
sanctifying grace - having gone to Holy Confession, and worthily receive Holy Communion. 
Jesus explained: “No soul will be justified until it turns with confidence to My mercy; 
and this is why the first Sunday after Easter is to be the Feast of Mercy, and on that 
day, priests are to tell everyone about My great and unfathomable mercy” {Diary, 570). 

c. The Chaplet of The Divine Mercy. This Chaplet was dictated to St. 
Faustina by the Lord Jesus Himself in Vilnius on September 13-14, 1935, as a prayer of 
atonement and for the appeasement of God’s wrath (see Diary, 474-476). 

Those who recite this Chaplet offer to god the Father “the Body and Blood, Soul and 
Divinity,” of Jesus Christ in atonement for their sins, the sins of their loved ones, and those of the 
entire world. By uniting themselves with the sacrifice of Jesus, they appeal to the great love that our 
Heavenly Father has for His Son and, in Him, for all humanity. 

By means of this prayer, the petitioners request “mercy on us and on the whole world,” 
and by so doing, they perform a work of mercy. If the faithful add to this the foundation of trust and 
fulfill the conditions regarding every good prayer (humility, perseverance, matters in conformity with 
God’s will), they can expect the fulfillment of Christ’s promises which are particularly related to the 
hour of death: the grace of conversion and a peaceful death. 

Not only will the people who say the Chaplet receive these graces, but also the dying at 
whose side others will recite this prayer. The Lord said: “When this chaplet is said by the bedside 
of a dying person, God’s anger is placated, unfathomable mercy envelops the soul” (Diary, 811). 
The general promise says: “It pleases Me to grant everything they ask of Me by saying the 
chaplet” ( Diary 1541) “....if what you ask for is compatible with My will” (Diary, 1731). For, 
anything that is not compatible with God’s will is not good for people, especially for their eternal 
happiness. 



On a different occasion, Jesus said: “ by saying the Chaplet, you are bringing 
humankind closer to Me” (Diary, 929), and again: “The souls that say this chaplet will be 

embraced by My mercy during their lifetime and especially at the hour of their death” (Diary, 
754). 



10 




d. The Hour of Mercy. In October, 1937, in Cracow, under circumstances that are not 
fully described by [St.] Faustina, the Lord Jesus recommended that she honor the hour of His death: 

“....as often as you hear the clock strike the third hour, immerse yourself completely in My 
mercy, adoring and glorifying it; invoke its omnipotence for the whole world, and particularly 
for poor sinners; for at that moment mercy was opened wide for every soul” {Diary, 1572). 

The Lord Jesus also determined the prayers that are appropriate for this form of the 
Divine Mercy devotion: “....try your best to make the Stations of the Cross in this hour, provided 
that your duties permit it; and if you are not able to make the Stations of the Cross, then at least 
step into the chapel for a moment and adore, in the Blessed Sacrament, My Heart, which is full 
of mercy; and should you be unable to step into the chapel, immerse yourself in prayer there 
where you happen to be, if only for a very brief instant” {Diary, 1572). 

Prof. Rozycki enumerates three conditions for prayers offered in this hour to be 

granted: 

1. They are to be addressed to Jesus. 

2 . They are to be said at three o’clock in the afternoon. 

3 . They are to appeal to the value and merits of Christ’s Passion. 

The Lord Jesus promised: “In this hour you can obtain everything for yourself and 

for others for the asking; it was the hour of grace for the whole world - mercy 

triumphed over justice” {Diary, 1572) 

e. Spreading the honor of The Divine Mercy. In discussing the essential elements of 
the Divine Mercy devotion, Rev. Rozycki also mentions the spreading of the honor of The Divine 
Mercy as one of them since certain promises of Christ are related to this as well: “Souls who spread 
the honor of My mercy I shield through their entire life as a tender mother her infant, and at the 
hour of death I will not be a Judge for them, but the Merciful Savior” {Diary, 1075). 

The essence of The Divine Mercy devotion is found in the Christian attitude of trust in 
God and of an active love toward neighbor. The Lord Jesus said: “I desire trust from My 

creatures” {Diary, 1059), and He expects them to exercise mercy through deeds, words, and prayers. 
And further: “You are to show mercy to your neighbors always and everywhere. You must not 
shrink from this or try to excuse or absolve yourself from it” {Diary, 742). Christ wants those 
who worship Him to perform at least one act of love of neighbor in the course of each day. 

The spreading of the honor of The Divine Mercy does not require many words, but 
always the Christian attitude of faith, of trust in god, and of becoming ever more merciful. In her 
lifetime St. Faustina gave the example of just such apostolic work. 

f. The Divine Mercy devotion aims at the renewal of religious life in the Church in 
the spirit of Christian trust and mercy. It is in this context that the idea of the “new congregation” of 
which we read in the Diary ’s pages should be considered. This desire of Christ matured gradually in 
Sr. Faustina’s own thinking, and underwent a certain evolution - from a strictly contemplative order 
all the way to a movement which is made up also of active congregations (male and female) and of lay 
people. 



11 




This great, supranational community of people is one family, which is being united, 
first of all, by god in the mystery of His mercy, and secondly, by people’s longing, both, to reflect that 
mercy in their own hearts and works, and for God’s glory to be reflected in all souls. It is a 
community of people who in different ways, depending upon their state in life and vocation (priestly, 
religious, lay), live by the Gospel ideal of trust and mercy, proclaim the incomprehensible mystery of 
God’s mercy by their life and words, and obtain Divine Mercy for the world with the entreaties. 

St. Faustina’s mission finds deep justification in Holy Scripture and documents of the 
Church; it superbly corresponds especially with the encyclical Dives in misericordia (Rich in mercy) 
of the Holy Father, John Paul II. 

3. REMARKS REGARDING THE THIRD 
ENGLISH EDITION OF ST. FAUSTINA’S DIARY. 

The former scientific study by Fr. George Mrowczynski concerning the composition of 
Saint Faustina’s Diary, that served as an introduction to its last two editions, has been replaced with 
the present text, the aim of which is to bring the reader closer to the personality of the author herself 
and her mission, as an aid to understanding the Diary. 

For the greater glory of The Divine Mercy! 



Cracow, December of 1991 



Sr. M. Eli z abeth Siepak, ZMBM 



CHRONOLOGY OF EVENTS 



In The Life of Saint Maria Faustina - Helen Kowalska 
of The Congregation of 
The Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy 



August 25, 1905 Helen Kowalska is born in the village of Glogowiec, Turek County, Lodz 

Province, Poland (Parish records of births). 

August 27, 1905 She is baptized in St. Casimir Church, Swinice Warckie, Turek County, 

by pastor, Rev. Joseph Chodynski. She receives the name of Helen. 
(Acts of the Parish in Swinice). 



1912 At the age of seven, Helen hears for the first time a voice in her 
soul, calling her to a more perfect way of life {Diary 1:3). 



1914 She receives First Holy Communion from the hands of her pastor, 
Rev.Pawlowski (Acts of the Parish in Swinice). 



November 1917 She begins her primary education in Swinice (Minutes from Zbiorczej 
Szkoly Gminnej w Swinicach Warckich, April 6, 1976). 



1 91 9 At the age of 1 4, Helen begins to work for the Bryszewski family in 

Aleksandrow, near Lodz, in order to help her parents (Memoirs of her 
mother, Marianne Kowalska). 



12 




October 30, 1921 
1922 



Autumn 1922 



February 2, 1923 



July 1924 



Summer 1924 
August 1, 1925 

Circa 

August 22, 1925 
August 1925 

January 23, 1926 

April 30, 1926' 

June 20, 1926 



She receives the Sacrament of Confirmation in Alexandrow, near Lodz, 
from Bishop Vincent Tymienecki. 

After working for a year for the Bryszewski family, she returns home and 
announces that she wishes to enter a convent. Her parents decidedly 
oppose this move {Diary 1:4; Memoirs of her mother). 

Helen leaves for Lodz to look for more work in order to help her parents. 
She works for three terciaries (Memoirs of her mother, p. 5; Memoirs of 
Stanislava Rapacka). 

Referred by an employment agency, she goes to work for Marcianne 
Sadowska, the owner of a store on 29 Abaramowski St., Lodz, where 
she remains until July 1 , 1924 (Memoirs of Mrs. Sadowska, p.2). 

Helen goes to Warsaw to enter a convent there (Memoirs of Mother 
General Michael Moraczewska, handwritten, p.1; Diary 1:4). 

She applies at the Congregation of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy at 
3/9 Zytnia Street in Warsaw. The superior assesses her as “no one 
special” and puts her to the test, telling her to go to work so she can pay 
for her wardrobe (Memoirs of Mother Michael, p. 1 ; Memoirs of Sister 
Borgia, p. 1). 

Helen goes to work as a domestic for Aldona Lipszyc, at Ostrowek, 
Klembow County, near Warsaw (Memoirs of A. Lipszyc, p.1 ). 

She again applies to the Congregation of the Sisters of Our Lady of 
Mercy, and this time she is accepted (Memoirs of Sister Borgia, p.1 ; 
Diary 1:6). 

Helen wants to leave the Congregation to enter a stricter order. 

She feels that there is too little time for prayer in the Congregation of Our 
Lady of Mercy (Memoirs of Mother Michael, p.2; Diary 1:6). 

The superior sends her to Skolimow, a vacation house of the 
Congregation, near Warsaw, to regain her strength (Memoirs of Mother 
Michael, p.2). 

She leaves for the Novitiate in Cracow to complete her postulancy 
period, make a retreat, and receive the veil (Memoirs of Sister Borgia, p. 
1; Diary 1:7). 

After an eight-day retreat, she receives her habit and her name in 
religion. From now on Helen will bear the name Sister Maria Faustina 
(Cracow Chron. 111:177; Memoirs of Sister Clemens). 

An administrative change of the Directress of Novices influences Sister 
Faustina’s spiritual formation (Cracow Chron. 111:179). 



13 




April 3, 1927 

April 16, 1928 
April 20, 1928 
April 30, 1928 
Dec. 6-10, 1928 

October 31, 1928 
February 21, 1929 
April 11, 1929 
June 1929 

July 7, 1929 
October 1929 



Sister Faustina experiences the spiritual dark night. The trial lasts 
almost to the end of the Novitiate. Mother Directress, Mary Joseph 
Brzoza, encourages her, excuses her from formal spiritual exercises, 
and urges her to great fidelity to God {Diary 1:8). 

On Good Friday, the flame of Divine Love encompasses the suffering 
novice. She forgets past sufferings, and she more clearly recognizes 
how much Christ suffered for her ( Diary 1:1 0). 

In the evening Sister Faustina, together with other sisters, begins the 
retreat before taking temporary vows (Chron. 111:203; Memoirs of Mother 
Michael, p.3; Diary 1:1 1). 

Sister Faustina makes her first profession of temporary vows, which she 
will renew each year for five years, until the moment when she will make 
her perpetual vows (Cracow Chron. 111:203; Memoirs of Mother Michael, 
p.3). 

At the General Chapter of the Congregation of the Sisters of Our Lady of 
Mercy, Mother Michael Moraczewska is elected Mother General (Cracow 
Chron. 111:21 0). [Mother Michael will be Superior throughout Sister 
Faustina’s life. In difficult moments she will be her help and comfort. 

Into her hands Sister Faustina will place her perpetual vows. Before 
death she will ask pardon of the whole Congregation through Mother’s 
hands for all the failings committed during her entire religious life 
(Memoirs of Mother Michael, pp. 5, 1 1 , 1 2).] 

Sister Faustina leaves for 3/9 Zytnia Street, Warsaw, where she is 
assigned to work in the kitchen (Cracow Chron. 111:212). 

She leaves for Vilnius to substitute for a sister going for her third 
probation (Vilnius Chron. 1:9). 

By morning train, she leaves Vilnius to return to Warsaw (Vil. Chron. 

1 : 21 ). 

She is assigned to work in a newly-formed house on Hetmanska Street, 
Warsaw (Memoirs of Sisters). 

After a few months, Sister Faustina returns to the house on 3/9 Zytnia 
Street. Meanwhile the students, (wards) with whom she worked, 
promise that they will follow her there (Memoirs of Sisters). 

For a short while, Sister Faustina is sent to a house of the Congregation 
in Kiekrz near Poznan, to substitute for an ailing sister in the kitchen 
(Memoirs of Syster Xavier; letter of July 6 with no year, placed in the 
memoirs; Diary 1:74). 

She is already back in Warsaw, as evidenced by a letter to Sister 
Justine, dated October 20, 1929. (Letters #25:66). 



14 




May-June 1930 



February 22, 1931 



November 1932 



December 1, 1932 



March 1933 
April 18, 1933 

April 21, 1933 



May 1, 1933 



May 25, 1933 



January 2, 1934 



Assigned to the house of the Congregation in Plock, Sister Faustina 
works there by turns in the bakery, the kitchen, and the bakery store 
(Memoirs of Mother Michael, p.3). 

During her stay in Plock (from June 1930 to November 1932), she 
spends some time in Biala (a house of the Congregation situated in a 
village about 10 kilometers from Plock). 

[Because the chronicles of Warsaw and Plock were ruined during World 
War II, it is difficult to fully ascertain the dates of her stay in these 
homes.] 

A letter to Sister Justine Golofit, dated December 1 7, 1 930, witnesses to 
the fact that Sister Faustina is, at that time, still in Biala (Letters #26:68). 

Sister Faustina sees a vision of the Lord Jesus, who tells her to paint an 
image according to the pattern she sees ( Diary 1:18; Memoirs of Mother 
P-4). 

She arrives in Warsaw for the Third Probation, which the Sisters of Our 
Lady of Mercy make before taking perpetual vows (Memoirs of Mother 
Michael, p.5; Diary 1:84). Before beginning the Third Probation, she 
does to Walendow to make a retreat (Memoirs of Sister Seraphina 
Kukulska; Diary 1:84). 

Together with other sisters she begins the Third Probation under the 
direction of Sister Margaret Gimbutt (Memoirs of Mother Michael, p.5; 
Diary 1:89). 

The Third Probation in this Congregation lasts for five months. During 
this time, Sister Faustina works in the vestry, helping Sister Suzanne 
Tokarski (Memoirs of Mother Michael, p. 5; Memoirs of Sister Suzanne; 
Diary 1:89). 

Sister Faustina’s younger sister, Wanda, visits her (Diary 1:97). 

With other sisters, Sister Faustina goes to Cracow to make an eight-day 
retreat and her profession of perpetual vows (Cracow Chron. IV:8). 

The eight-day retreat begins under the direction of Father Wojnar, S.J. 
(Cracow Chron. IV:8; Diary 1:102). 

Sister Faustina makes her perpetual vows. The celebrant for this 
ceremony is Bishop Stanislaus Rospond. 

After the vows, Sister Faustina remains in Cracow for another month 
(Memoirs of Mother Michael, p.5; Cracow Chron. IV:8; Diary 1:114). 

She leaves for Vilnius (Vil. Chron., p. 178). [The chronicle notes: “Sister 
Faustina, who made her profession of perpetual vows in Cracow, arrived 
Thursday evening, by train.”] 

Sister Faustina goes for the first time to the artist Kazimirowski, who is to 
paint the image of The Divine Mercy (Memoirs of Rev. Sopocko, p.1 ; 
Memoirs of Mother Michael, p.6; Diary 11:240). 



15 




March 29, 1934 
June 1934 

July 26, 1934 
July 28, 1934 
August 12, 1934 

August 13, 1934 
October 26, 1934 

February 15, 1935 

March 4, 1935 

Sept. 29, 1935 
October 19, 1935 
November 4, 1935 



She offers herself for sinners, especially for those souls who have lost 
trust in the Divine Mercy [Diary 1:133). 

The painting of the image of The Divine Mercy, executed by artist E. 
Kazimirowski under the guidance of Sister Faustina, is completed. 

Sister Faustina cries because the image of the Lord Jesus is not as 
beautiful as she had seen Flim (Memoirs of Rev. Sopocko, p. 1 ; Diary I: 
134). 

Sister Faustina lies sick - with a cold (Vil. Chron., p. 223). 

She begins to write the Diary again. 

She becomes gravely ill. Dr. Maciejewska is summoned along with 
Father Sopocko, who administers the Sacrament of Anointing of the Sick 
to her (Vil. Chron., p. 226). 

Her health improves (Vil. Chron., p. 226). 

Walking with the students from the garden to supper (10 minutes before 
6:00 p.m.), Sister Faustina sees the Lord Jesus above the chapel in 
Vilnius in the same way as she saw Him in Plock; that is, with the pale 
and red rays. The rays envelop the chapel of the Congregation and the 
infirmary of the students, and then they spread out over the whole world 
(Archives - Sister Faustina documents). 

Sister Faustina receives news of her seriously ill mother and leaves 
immediately that evening for her home village of Glogowiec, near Lodz 
(Vil. Chron., p. 261 ; Diary 1:1 65-1 69). 

After leaving her home, Sister Faustina stops in Warsaw to see Mother 
General, Michael Moraczewska, and her former Directress, Sister Mary 
Joseph Brzoza. A few days later she returns to Vilnius [Diary 1: 169). 
[The Vilnius Chronicle does not note the date of her return.] 

Sister Petronilla and Sister Faustina go by wagon to the market held 
annually on St. Casmir’s Feast Day, for tools and items needed by the 
house (Vil. Chron. P. 264). 

Sister Faustina accompanies some of the other sisters to the Church of 
St. Michael for the Forty-Hour Devotions (Vil. Chron., p. 302). 

Sister Antonina and Sister Faustina leave for an eight-day retreat in 
Cracow (Vil. Chron., p. 307; Cracow Chron. IV:49). 

In the evening, Sister Faustina returns to Vilnius from the retreat (Vil. 
Chron., p. 311). 



16 




January 8, 1936 

March 17, 1936 

March 19, 1936 
March 21, 1936 
March 25, 1936 

April 1936 

May 11, 1936 
June 19, 1936 
Sept. 14, 1936 

Sept. 19, 1936 
October 20, 1936 
Dec. 9, 1936 

Dec. 13, 1936 



She pays a visit to Bishop Jalbrzykowski and announces to him that the 
Lord Jesus is demanding the founding of a new congregation ( Diary 
11:50). 

Sister Borgia Tichy, Superior of the house in Vilnius receives information 
from Mother General of the change of assignment for Sister Faustina 
from Vilnius to Walendow (Vil. Chron., p. 337). 

Sister Borgia confers with Archbishop Jalbrzykowski concerning Sister 
Faustina (Vil. Chron., p. 338). 

Sister Faustina takes the morning train from Vilnius to Warsaw (Vil. 
Chron., p. 338), and remains in Warsaw for a few days ( Diary 11:90). 

She arrives in Walendow - a country house of the Congregation, 20 km 
from Warsaw. The sisters welcome her joyfully and sincerely (Memoirs; 
Diary 11:91). 

After a few weeks, she is assigned to another country home, 1 km from 
Walendow, a place called Derdy (Memoirs of Mother Michael, p. 8). 

This home is situated in a forested area, and Sister Faustina, enchanted 
with its natural beauty, writes of her joy to Fr. Sopocko in a letter dated 
May 10, 1936 (Letters #3:5). 

In company with Sister Edmund Sekul, she leaves Derdy for a 
permanent stay in Cracow (Cracow Chron. IV:60), where she works first 
in the garden and then as gatekeeper (Memoirs of Mother Michael, p. 8). 

With some of the sisters, she takes part in a procession in honor of the 
Sacred Heart of Jesus at the Jesuit house on 26 Kopernik Street 
(Cracow Chron. IV:61 ; Diary II: 111). 

Archbishop Jalbrzykowski, on his way to Tarnow, visits the convent at 
Cracow and spends a few minutes in conversation with Sister Faustina 
(Cracow Chron. IV:67; Diary II: 133; Memoirs of Sister Felicia and Sister 
Irene). 

Sister Faustina is given a physical examination at the hospital in Pradnik 
{Diary II: 133-134). 

In Cracow, she makes an eight-day retreat directed by Father Wojton, 
S.J. (Cracow Chron. IV:70; Diary 11:153). 

For health reasons, the superiors send Sister Faustina to the hospital in 
Pradnik, a sanatorium for tuberculosis patients in Cracow (Cracow 
Chron. IV:74; Diary 11:198). 

Sister Faustina confesses to the Lord Jesus ( Diary II: 207). 



17 




Dec. 24, 1936 


With the doctor’s permission she returns to the convent for the 
Christmas holidays (Cracow Chron. IV:74; Diary 11:226). 


Dec. 27, 1936 


She returns to the hospital in Pradnik for further treatment ( Diary 11:230). 


March 27, 1937 


She comes back from Pradnik, her health significantly improved (Cracow 
Chron. IV: 82; Diary 111:18). 


April 13, 1937 


Her health becomes so much worse that she is forced to remain in bed 
{Diary 111:22-23). 


April 14, 1937 


Fatigued from sickness, she asks the Lord Jesus for health, and is heard 
{Diary 111:23). 


April 23, 1937 


During an eight-day retreat starting on April 20 in the Cracow convent, 
Sister Faustina takes this opportunity to make her three-day retreat 
(Cracow Chron. IV:82; Diary 111:26). 


April 29, 1937 


After the retreat, she converses with her former Directress of Novices, 
Sister Mary Joseph, who made her retreat in Cracow {Diary 111:29-30). 


May 4, 1937 


Sister Faustina receives permission from Mother General Michael 
Moraczewska to leave the Congregation (Memoirs of Mother Michael, p. 
9; Diary III: 30-31). 


July 20, 1937 


She learns that she is going to be sent to a house of the Congregation at 
Rabka {Diary 111:54). 

[The Chronicle makes no mention of this; however, it notes that the 
Superior went to Rabka for two days, which could have had some 
connection with Sister Faustina’s departure (Cracow Chron. IV:88 - 
dated July 19; Memoirs of Sister Irene).] 


July 29, 1937 


Sister Faustina leaves for Rabka {Diary 111:54-55; Memoirs). 


August 10, 1937 


She finds that the climate at Rabka does not agree with her, but makes 
her feel more ill, so she returns to Cracow {Diary IV:4). 


August 12, 1937 


Father Sopocko stops at the convent in Cracow and spends some time 
with Sister Faustina (Memoirs of Sister Felicia; Diary IV:4-5). 


August 25, 1937 


Father Sopocko spends a few days in Cracow. Sister Faustina is happy 
because she is anxious to see him {Diary IV: 16). 


August 29, 1937 


She receives permission to speak at length with Father Sopocko {Diary 
IV: 17). 

[The Chronicles make no mention of this.] 


Sept. 6, 1937 


Due to increasing ill health, her assignment is changed from gardener to 
gatekeeper (Memoirs of Mother Michael, p. 10; Diary IV:25). 



18 




Sept. 19, 1937 
Sept. 27, 1937 

April 21, 1938 

June 2-5, 1938 

June 1938 
July 1938 

August 1938 
August 24, 1938 

August 25, 1938 
August 28, 1938 
Sept. 2, 1938 
Sept. 17, 1938 
Sept. 22, 1938 
Sept. 26, 1938 



Her brother Stanley visits her ( Diary IV:40). 

Sister Faustina and Sister Irene Krzyzanowska, Superior of the house, 
go to the printer to settle the matter of having some holy cards of the 
image of The Divine Mercy printed ( Diary IV:45; Memoirs of Sister Irene, 

p. 2). 

Sister Faustina’s health deteriorates, and her superiors decide to send 
her to the hospital in Pradnik again (Cracow Chron. IV:1 1 9; Memoirs of 
Mother Michael, p. 10). 

She makes a three-day retreat in the hospital (Memoirs of Sister Irene 
Krzyzanowska and Sister Felicia; Diary MV. 114). 

She stops writing the Diary. 

Mother General Michael Moraczewska pays a visit to her at the hospital 
(Memoirs of Mother Michael, p. 10; Memoirs of Sister Felicia). 

Writing her last letter to Mother General, she begs pardon for all the 
faults of her whole life and ends with the words: “till we meet in heaven” 
(Letters #23:64; Memoirs of Mother Michael, p. 11). 

Sister Camille, who is also a patient at the hospital in Pradnik, 
telephones to the Superior that Sister Faustina’s health has significantly 
worsened. The Superior rides to the hospital and spends the night at 
Sister Faustina’s bedside (Cracow Chron. IV: 129). 

Rev. T. Czaputa, chaplain of the house of the Congregation in Cracow, 
goes to the hospital in Pradnik to administer the Sacrament of Anointing 
of the Sick (Cracow Chron. IV:1 29). 

Father Sopocko, being in Cracow, pays a visit to the Congregation and 
visits Sister Faustina a few times in the hospital (Memoirs of Father 
Sopocko, p. 3; Cracow Chron. IV: 129). 

Father Sopocko visits Sister Faustina in the sanatorium in Pradnik and 
sees her in ecstasy (Memoirs of Father Sopocko, p. 5; Memoirs of Sister 
Felicia). 

Very weak and unable to keep much food, Sister Faustina is taken home 
from Pradnik. Calm and very uplifting, she waits for the moment of union 
with the Lord Jesus, not at all afraid to die (Cracow Chron. IV: 131 ). 

As she loses more and more strength, she asks pardon of the entire 
Congregation for her unintentional failings, and serenely awaits the 
coming of her Heavenly Bridegroom (Cracow Chron. IV:1 32). 

Father Sopocko visits her for the last time in Cracow, and she tells him: 
“My one occupation is to live in the presence of my Heavenly Father.” 



19 




October 2, 1938 
October 5, 1 938 

October 7, 1938 



October 21, 1965 
Nov. 25, 1966 



[Father Sopocko notes that “She looked like an unearthly being,” and he 
adds, “At that time, I no longer had the slightest doubt that what she had 
written in her diary about receiving Holy Communion from an Angel was 
really true” (Memoirs of Father Sopocko, p. 5).] 

Sister Faustina, progressively weaker, but always uplifting, calmly awaits 
her departure (Cracow Chron. IV:1 33). 

At 4:00 p.m. Father Andrasz, S.J., arrives, and Sister Faustina makes 
her confession for the last time (Cracow Chron. IV: 134). 

At 9:00 p.m. the Chaplain Rev. T. Czaputa, together with the assembled 
sisters, prays at her bedside the prayers for the dying. Sister Faustina, 
conscious to the end, unites with those praying (Cracow Chron. IV: 1 34). 
At 10:45 p.m. Sister Maria Faustina Kowalska, after long sufferings 
borne with great patience, goes to the Lord for her reward (Cracow 
Chron. IV:1 34). 

The funeral of Sister Faustina Kowalska takes place on the First Friday 
of the month and the Feast of Our Lady of the Rosary. 

The Jesuits, Father Wojton and Father Chabrowski from the Monastery 
of St. Barbara Square, and one cleric from 26 Kopernik Street, take part 
in the funeral services. 

At 8:30 a.m. the Matins are sung, next Father Wojton celebrates the 
Liturgy at the main altar and Father Chabrowski at the altar of the 
Sacred Heart of Jesus (where the image of the Divine Mercy, renowned 
for countless graces, is presently found). 

Fr. Chabrowski celebrates the Mass wearing white vestments. As the 
chronicle notes, everything is done very beautifully. No members of 
Sister Faustina’s family are present at the funeral (Cracow Chron. IV: 
134). 

Sister Faustina is buried in the convent cemetery situated in the garden 
of the Congregation of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy, 3/9 Wronia 
Street, Lagiewniki, Cracow, in the common grave found on this 
cemetery. 

Twenty-seven years after the death of Sister Faustina, Bishop Julian 
Groblicki, specially delegated by Archbishop Karol Wojtyla, begins with a 
solemn session in the Archdiocese of Cracow, the Informative Process 
relating to the life and virtues of Sister Faustina. From this moment, 
Sister Faustina is worthy of the title, Servant of God. 

While the Informative Process relating to the virtues, writings and 
devotion of the Servant of God, Sister Faustina, is being conducted 
(October 21, 1965 to September 20, 1967), her remains are exhumed 
and transferred to a tomb specially prepared for this purpose in the 
chapel of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy. Over the tomb is a black 
slab with a cross in the center. The slab usually has fresh flowers 
brought by the faithful, who plead for numerous graces through the 
intercession of Sister Faustina. 



20 




Sept. 20, 1967 
January 26, 1968 
January 31, 1968 

April 18, 1993 

April 30, 2000 



His Eminence, Karol Cardinal Wojtyla, with a solemn session, closes the 
Informative Process of the Servant of God in the Cracow Archdiocese. 

The Acts of the Informative Process are received in Rome by the Sacred 
Congregation for the Causes of Saints. 

By a Decree of the Sacred Congregation for the Causes of Saints, the 
Process of Beatification of the Servant of God, Sister Faustina H. 
Kowalska, is formally inaugurated. 

The Venerable Servant of God, Sister Maria Faustina Kowalska, is 
beatified by Pope John Paul II in Rome on the first Sunday after Easter, 
which is celebrated by many around the world as Divine Mercy Sunday. 

Blessed Maria Faustina Kowalska is canonized by Pope John Paul II in 
Rome, on Divine Mercy Sunday, during the Great Jubilee Year 2000. 
And the Pope states during his Canonization homily: “The Second 

Sunday of Easter from now on throughout the Church will be called 
‘Divine Mercy Sunday.’” 



21 




My daughter, be diligent in writing down 
every sentence I tell you concerning My 
mercy, because this is meant for a great 
number of souls who will profit from it. 

(Diary 1142) 



22 




Divine Mercy 
In my Soul 



Diary 



Sr. Faustina 



Notebook I 



NOTEBOOK I 



23 




( 1 ) 



1 O Eternal Love, You command Your Sacred Image to be painted 
And reveal to us the inconceivable fount of mercy, 

You bless whoever approaches Your rays, 

And a soul all black will turn into snow. 

O sweet Jesus, it is here 2 You established the throne of Your mercy 
To bring joy and hope to sinful man, 

From Your open Heart, as from a pure fount, 

Flows comfort to a repentant heart and soul. 

May praise and glory for this Image 
Never cease to stream from man’s soul. 

May praise and glory for this Image 
Never cease to stream from man’s soul, 

May praise of God’s mercy pour from every heart, 

Now, and at every hour, and forever and ever. 

O My God 

2 When I look into the future, I am frightened, 

But why plunge into the future? 

Only the present moment is precious to me, 

As the future may never enter my soul at all. 

It is no longer in my power, 

To change, correct or add to the past; 

For neither sages nor prophets could do that. 

And so, what the past has embraced I must entrust to God. 

0 present moment, you belong to me, whole and entire, 

1 desire to use you as best I can. 

And although I am weak and small, 

You grant me the grace of Your omnipotence. 

And so, trusting in Your mercy, 

I walk through life like a little child, 

Offering You each day this heart 
Burning with love for Your greater glory. 



24 




NOTEBOOK I 



(2) 



+ 

J.MJ. 

[Jesus, Mary, and Joseph] 

3 God and souls 

King of Mercy, guide my soul. 



Sister M. Faustina 
Of the Blessed Sacrament 



Vilnius, July 28, 1934 



4 O my Jesus, because of my trust in You, 

I weave thousands of garlands, and I know 
That they will all blossom. 

And I know that they will all blossom 
When God’s sun will shine on them. 

+ O great and Divine Sacrament 
That veils my God! 

Jesus, be with me each moment, 
And no fear will enter my heart. 



25 




Vilnius, July 28, 
+First 



( 3 ) + 

1934 

J.M.J. 

Notebook 

5 Be adored, O Most Holy Trinity, now and for all time. Be adored in all Your works and 
all Your creatures. May the greatness of Your mercy be admired and glorified, O God. 

6 I am to write down 3 the encounters of my soul with You, O God, at the moments of 
Your special visitations. I am to write about You, O Incomprehensible in mercy 
towards my poor soul. Your holy will is the life of my soul. I have received this order 
through him who is for me Your representative here on earth, who interprets Your holy 
Will to me. Jesus, You see how difficult it is for me to write, how unable I am to put 
down clearly what I experience in my soul. O God, can a pen write down that for 
which many a time there are no words? But You give the order to write, O God; that is 
enough for me. 

Warsaw, August 1 , 1 925 

Entrance into the Convent 

7 From the age of seven, I experienced the definite call of God, the grace of a vocation 
to the religious life. It was in the seventh year of my life that, for the first time, I heard 
God’s voice in my soul; that is, an invitation to a more perfect life. But I was not 
always obedient to the call of grace. I came across no one who would have explained 
these things to me. 

8 The eighteenth year of my life. An earnest appeal to my parents for permission to 
enter the convent. My parents’ flat refusal. After this refusal, I turned myself over to 
the vain things of life, paying no attention to the call of grace, although my soul found 
no satisfaction in any of these things. ( 4 ) The incessant call of grace caused me much 
anguish: I tried, however, to stifle it with amusements. Interiorly, I shunned God, 
turning with all my heart to creatures. However, God’s grace won out in my soul. 

9 Once I was at a dance [probably in Lodz] with one of my sisters. While everybody was 
having a good time, my soul was experiencing deep torments. As I began to dance, I 
suddenly saw Jesus at my side, Jesus racked with pain, stripped of His clothing, all 
covered with wounds, who spoke these words to me: How long shall I put up with 
you and how long will you keep putting Me off? At that moment the charming music 
stopped, [and] the company I was with vanished from my sight; there remained Jesus 
and I. I took a seat by my dear sister pretending to have a headache in order to cover 
up what took place in my soul. After a while I slipped out unnoticed, leaving my sister 
and all my companions behind and made my way to the Cathedral of Saint Stanislaus 
Kostka. 

It was almost twilight; there were only a few people in the cathedral. Paying no 
attention to what was happening around me, I fell prostrate before the Blessed 
Sacrament and begged the Lord to be good enough to give me to understand what I 
should do next. 

1 0 Then I heard these words: Go at once to Warsaw; you will enter a convent there. I 

rose from prayer, came home, and took care of things that needed to be settled. As 



26 




best I could, I confided to my sister what took place within my soul. I told her to say 
good-bye to our parents, and thus, in my one dress, with no other belonging, I arrived in 
Warsaw. 

1 1 When I got off the train and saw that all were going their separate ways, I was 
overcome with fear. What am I to do? To whom should I turn, as I know no one? So I 
said to the Mother of Go, “Mary, lead me, guide me.” Immediately I heard these words 
within me telling me to leave the town and go to a certain nearby village where I would 
find a safe lodging for the night. I did so and found, in fact, that everything was just as 
the Mother of God told me. 

1 2 Very early the next day, I rode back into the city and entered the first church I saw [St. 
James Church at Grojecka Street in Ochota, a suburb of Warsaw], There I began to 
pray to know further the will of God. Holy Masses were being celebrated one after 
another. During one of them I heard the words: Go to that priest [Father James 
Dabrowski, pastor of St. James’ Parish] and tell him everything; he will tell you what 
to do next. After the Mass I went to the sacristy. (5) I told the priest all that had taken 
place in my soul, and I asked him to advise me where to take the veil, in which religious 
order. 

1 3 The priest was surprised at first, but told me to have strong confidence that God would 
provide for my future. “For the time being,” he said, “I shall send you to a pious lady 
[Aldona Lipszycowa 4 ] with whom you will stay until you enter a convent.” When I called 
on this lady, she received me very kindly. During the time I stayed with her, I was 
looking for a convent, but at whatever convent door I knocked, I was turned away. 
Sorrow gripped my heart, and I said to the Lord Jesus, “Help me; don’t leave me alone.” 
At last I knocked on our door. 5 

14 When Mother Superior, the present Mother General Michael 6 came out to meet me, she 
told me, after a short conversation, to go to the Lord of the house and ask whether He 
would accept me. I understood at once that I was to ask this of the Lord Jesus. With 
great joy, I went to the chapel and asked Jesus: “Lord of this house, do You accept 
me? This is how one of these sisters told me to put the question to You.” 

Immediately I heard this voice: I do accept; you are in My Heart. When I returned 
from the chapel, Mother Superior asked first of all, “Well, has the Lord accepted you?” 

In answered, “Yes.” “If the Lord has accepted, [she said] then I also will accept.” 

15 This is how I was accepted. However, for many reasons I still had to remain in the 
world for more than a year with that pious woman [Aldona Lipszycowa], but I did not go 
back to my own home. 

At that time I had to struggle with many difficulties, but God was lavish with His graces. 
An ever greater longing for God began to take hold of me. The lady, pious as she was, 
did not understand the happiness of religious life and, in her kindheartedness began to 
make other plans for my future life. And yet, I sensed that I had a heart so big that 
nothing would be capable of filling it. And so I turned with all the longing of my soul to 
God. 



27 




16 



It was during the octave of Corpus Christi [June 25, 1 925]. God filled my soul with the 
interior light of a deeper knowledge of Him as Supreme goodness and Supreme Beauty. 
I came to know how very much God loves me. Eternal is His love for me. It was at 
vespers - in simple words, which flowed from the heart, I made to God (6) a vow of 
perpetual chastity. From that moment I felt a greater intimacy with God, my Spouse. 
From that moment I set up a little cell in my heart where I always kept company with 
Jesus. 

1 7 At last the time came when the door of the convent was opened for me - it was the first 
of August [1 925], in the evening, the vigil [of the feast] of Our Lady of the Angels. I felt 
immensely happy; it seemed to me that I had stepped into the life of Paradise. A single 
prayer was bursting forth from my heart, one of thanksgiving. 

1 8 However, after three weeks I became aware that there is so very little time here for 
prayer, and of many other things which spoke to my soul in favor of entering a religious 
community of a stricter observance. This thought took a firm hold of my soul, but the 
will of God was not in it. Still, the thought, or rather the temptation, was growing 
stronger and stronger to the point where I decided one day to announce my departure 
to Mother Superior and definitely to leave [the convent]. But God arranged the 
circumstances in such a way that I could not get to the Mother Superior [Michael]. I 
stepped into the little chapel 7 before going to bed, and I asked Jesus for light in this 
matter. But I received nothing in my soul except a strange unrest which I did not 
understand. But, in spite of everything, I made up my mind to approach Mother 
Superior the next morning right after Mass and tell her of my decision. 

19 I came to my cell. The sisters were already in bed - the lights were out. I entered the 
cell full of anguish and discontent; I did not know what to do with myself. I threw myself 
headlong on the ground and began to pray fervently that I might come to know the will 
of God. There is silence everywhere as in the tabernacle. All the sisters are resting like 
white hosts enclosed in Jesus’ chalice. It is only from my cell that God can hear the 
moaning of a soul. I did not know that one was not allowed to pray in the cell after nine 
without permission. 8 

After a while a brightness filled my cell, and on the curtain I saw the very sorrowful Face 
of Jesus. There were open wounds on His Face, and large tears were falling on my 
bedspread. Not knowing what all this meant, I asked Jesus, “Jesus, who has hurt You 
so?” And Jesus said to me, It is you who will cause Me this pain if you leave this 
convent. It is to this place that I called you and nowhere else; and I have prepared 
many graces for you. I begged pardon of Jesus and immediately changed my decision. 

(7) The next day was confession day. I related all that had taken place in my soul, and 
the confess\or answered that, from this, God’s will is clear that I am to remain in this 
congregation and that I’m not even to think of another religious order. From that moment 
on, I have always felt happy and content. 

20 Shortly after this, I fell ill [general exhaustion]. The dear Mother Superior sent me with 
two other sisters for a rest to Skolimow, not far from Warsaw. It was at that time that I 
asked the Lord for whom else should I pray for. Jesus said that on the following night He 
would let me know for whom I should pray. 



28 




[The next night] I saw my Guardian Angel, who ordered me to follow him. In a moment I 
was in a misty place full of fire in which there was a great crowd of suffering souls. They 
were praying fervently, but to no avail, for themselves; only we can come to their aid. The 
flames which were burning them did not touch me at all. My Guardian Angel did not leave 
me for an instant. I asked these souls what their greatest suffering was. They answered 
me in one voice that their greatest torment was longing for God. I saw Our Lady visiting 
the souls in Purgatory. The souls call he “The Star of the Sea.” She brings them 
refreshment. I wanted to talk with them some more, but my Guardian Angel beckoned 
me to leave. We went out of that prison of suffering. [I head an interior voice] which said, 
My mercy does not want this, but justice demands it. Since that time, I am in closer 
communion with the suffering souls. 

21 End of postulancy [April 29, 1926] - My superiors [probably Mother Leonard and Mother 
Jane 9 ] sent me to the novitiate in Cracow. An inconceivable joy reigned in my soul. 

When we arrived at the novitiate, Sister [Henry 10 ] was dying. A few days later she came 
to me [in spirit, after her death] and bid me to go to the Mother Directress of Novices 
[Sister Margaret 11 ] and tell her to ask her confessor, Father Rospond, 12 to offer one Mass 
for her and three ejaculatory prayers. At first I agreed, but the next day I decided I would 
not go to Mother Directress, because I was not sure whether this had happened in a 
dream or (8) in reality. And so I did not go. 

The following night the same thing was repeated more clearly; I had no more doubt. Still, 
in the morning I decided not to tell the Directress about it unless I saw her [Sister Henry] 
during the day. At once I ran into her in the corridor. She reproached me for not having 
gone immediately to Mother Directress and told her everything that had happened to me. 
Mother responded that she would take care of the matter. At once peace reigned in my 
soul, and on the third day this sister came to me and said, “May God repay you.” 

22 The day I took the [religious] habit, 13 God let me understand how much I was to suffer. I 
clearly saw to what I was committing myself. I experienced a moment of that suffering. 

But then God filled my soul again with great consolations. 

23 Toward the end of the first year of my novitiate, darkness began to cast its shadow over 
my soul. I felt no consolation in prayer; I had to make a great effort to meditate; fear 
began to sweep over me. Going deeper into myself, I could find nothing but great misery. 

I could also clearly see the great holiness of God. I did not dare to raise my eyes to Him, 
but reduced myself to dust under His feet and begged for mercy. My soul was in this 
state for almost six months. Our beloved Mother Directress [Mary Joseph 14 ] encouraged 
me in these difficult moments. But this suffering continued to grow stronger. 

The second year of the novitiate was approaching. Whenever I recalled that I was to 
make my vows, my soul shuddered. I did not understand what I was reading; I could not 
meditate; it seemed to me that my prayer was displeasing to God. It seemed to me that 
by approaching the Holy Sacraments I was offending God even more. But despite this, 
my confessor [Father Theodore 15 ] did not let me omit one single Holy Communion. God 
was working very strangely in my soul. I did not understand anything at all of what my 
confessor was telling me. The simple truths of the faith became incomprehensible to me. 
My soul was in anguish, unable to find comfort anywhere. 



29 




(9) At a certain point, there came to me the very powerful impression that I am rejected by 
God. This terrible thought pierced my soul right through; in the midst of the suffering my 
soul began to experience the agony of death. I wanted to die but could not. The thought 
came to me: of what use is it to strive for virtues; why mortify oneself when all this is 
disagreeable to God? When I made this known to the Directress of Novices, I received 
this reply, “Know, dear Sister, that God has chosen you for great sanctity. This is a sign 
that God wants to have you very close to Himself in Heaven. Have great trust in the Lord 
Jesus.” 

That dreadful thought of being rejected by God is the actual torture suffered by the 
damned. I fled to Jesus’ Wounds and repeated the words of trust, but these words 
became for me an even greater torture. I went before the Blessed Sacrament, and I 
began to speak to Jesus: “Jesus, You said that a mother would sooner forget her infant 
than God His creature, and that ‘even if she would forget her infant, I, God, will never 
forget My creature.’ O Jesus, do You hear how my soul is moaning? Deign to hear the 
painful whimpers of Your child. I trust in You, O God, because heaven and earth will 
pass, but Your word will last forever.” Still, I found not a moment of relief. 

24 One day, just as I had awakened, when I was putting myself in the presence of God, I 
was suddenly overwhelmed by despair. Complete darkness in the soul. I fought as best I 
could till noon. In the afternoon, truly deadly fears began to seize me; my physical 
strength began to leave me. I went quickly to my cell, fell on my knees before the Crucifix 
and began to cry out for mercy. But Jesus did not hear my cries. I felt my physical 
strength leave me completely. I fell to the ground, despair flooding my whole soul. I 
suffered terrible tortures in no way different from the torments of hell. I was in this state 
for three quarters of an hour. I wanted to go and see the Directress, but was too weak. I 
wanted to shout but I had no voice. Fortunately, one of the sisters [another novice, Sister 
Placida Putyra] came into my cell. Finding me in such a strange condition, she 
immediately told the Directress about it. Mother came at once. As soon as she entered 
the cell she said, “In the name of holy obedience 16 get up from the ground.” Immediately 
some force raised me up from the ground and I stood up, close to the dear Mother 
Directress. (10) With kindly words she began to explain to me that this was a trial sent to 
me by God, saying, “Have great confidence; God is always our Father, even when He 
sends us trials.” 

I returned to my duties as if I had come out from the tomb, my senses saturated with what 
my soul had experienced. During the evening service, my soul began to agonize again in 
a terrible darkness. I felt that I was in the power of the Just God, and that I was the object 
of His indignation. During these terrible moments I said to God, “Jesus, who in the 
Gospel compare Yourself to a most tender mother, 17 1 trust in Your words because You 
are Truth and Life. In spite of everything, Jesus, I trust in You in the face of every interior 
sentiment which sets itself against hope. Do what You want with me; I will never leave 
You, because You are the source of my life.” Only one who has lived through similar 
moments can understand how terrible is this torment of the soul. 

25 During the night, the Mother of God visited me, holding the Infant Jesus in Her arms. My 
soul was filled with joy, and I said, “Mary, my Mother, do You know how terribly I suffer?” 
And the Mother of God answered me, / know how much you suffer, but do not be afraid. I 
share with you your suffering, and I shall always do so. She smiled warmly and 
disappeared. At once, strength and a great courage sprang up anew in my soul; but that 



30 




lasted only one day. It seemed as though hell had conspired against me. A terrible 
hatred began to break out in my soul, a hatred for all that is holy and divine. It seemed to 
me that these spiritual torments would be my lot for the rest of my life. I turned to the 
Blessed Sacrament and said to Jesus, “Jesus, my Spouse, do You not see that my soul is 
dying because of its longing for You? How can You hide Yourself from a heart that loves 
You so sincerely? Forgive me, Jesus; may Your holy will be done in me. I will suffer 
silently like a dove, without complaining. I will not allow my heart even one single cry of 
sorrowful complaint.” 

26 End of the novitiate. The suffering does not diminish. Physical weakness dispenses 
me from all [community] spiritual exercises; that is to say, they are replaced by brief 
ejaculatory prayers. Good Friday [April 16, 1928] - Jesus catches up my heart into the 
very flame of His love. This was during the evening adoration. All of a sudden, the Divine 
Presence invaded me, and I forgot everything else. Jesus gave me to understand how 
much He had suffered (1 1 ) for me. This lasted a very short time. An intense yearning - a 
longing to love God. 

27 First vows [First profession of temporary vows, April 30, 1 928]. An ardent desire to empty 
myself for God by an active love, but a love that would be imperceptible, even to the 
sisters closest to me. 

However, even after the vows, darkness continued to reign in my soul for almost a half 
year. Once, when I was praying, Jesus pervaded all my soul, darkness melted away, and 
I heard these words within me: You are My joy; you are My heart’s delight. From that 
moment I felt the Most Holy Trinity in my heart; that is to say, within myself. I felt that I 
was inundated with Divine light. Since then, my soul has been in intimate communion 
with God, like a child with its beloved Father. 

28 Once Jesus told me, Go to Mother Superior [probably Mother Raphael 18 ] and ask her 
to let you wear a hair shirt for seven days, and once each night you are to get up 
and come to the chapel. I said yes, but I found a certain difficulty in actually going to the 
Superior. In the evening Jesus asked me, How long will you put it off? I made up my 
mind to tell Mother Superior the very next time I would see her. 

The next day before noon I saw Mother Superior going to the refectory and, since the 
kitchen, refectory and Sister Aloysia’s little room are all close to each other, I asked 
Mother Superior to come into Sister Aloysia’s room and told her of the wish of the Lord 
Jesus. At that, Mother answered, “I will not permit you to wear any hair shirt. Absolutely 
not! If the Lord Jesus were to give you the strength of a colossus, I would then permit 
those mortifications.” 

I apologized for taking up Mother’s time and left the room. At that very moment I saw 
Jesus standing at the kitchen door, and I said to Him, “You commanded me to ask for 
these mortifications, but Mother Superior will not permit them.” Jesus said, I was here 
during your conversation with the Superior and know everything. I don’t demand 
mortification from you, but obedience. By obedience you give great glory to Me 
and gain merit for yourself. 

29 One of the Mothers [probably Mother Jane], when she learned about my close 
relationship with the Lord Jesus, told me that I must be deluding myself. She told me that 



31 




the Lord Jesus associates in this way only with the saints and not with sinful souls “like 
you, Sister!” (12) After that, it was as if I mistrusted Jesus. In one of my morning talks 
with Him I said, “Jesus, are You not an illusion?” Jesus answered me, My love deceives 
no one. 

30 + On one occasion I was reflecting on the Holy Trinity, on the essence of God. I 

absolutely wanted to know and fathom who God is In an instant my spirit was caught 

up into what seemed to be the next world. I saw an inaccessible light, and in this light 
what appeared like three sources of light which I could not understand. And out of that 
light came words in the form of lightning which encircled heaven and earth. Not 
understanding anything, I was very sad. Suddenly, from this sea of inaccessible light 
came our dearly beloved Savior, unutterably beautiful with His shining Wounds. And from 
this light came a voice which said, Who God is in His Essence, no one will fathom, 
neither the mind of Angels nor or man. Jesus said to me, Get to know God by 
contemplating His attributes. A moment later, He traced the sign of the cross with his 
hand and vanished. 

31 + Once I saw a big crowd of people in our chapel, in front of the chapel and in the street, 
because there was no room for them inside 19 . The chapel was decorated for a feast. 
There were a lot of clergy near the altar, and then our sisters and those of many other 
congregations. They were all waiting for the person who was to take a place on the altar. 
Suddenly I heard a voice saying that I was to take the place on the altar. But as soon as I 
left the corridor to go across the yard and enter the chapel, following the voice that was 
calling me, all the people began to throw at me whatever they had to hand: mud, stones, 
sand, brooms, to such an extent that I at first hesitated to go forward. But the voice kept 
on calling me even more earnestly, so I walked on bravely. 

When I entered the chapel, the superiors, the sisters, the students, 20 and even my 
parents started to hit me with whatever they could, and so whether I wanted to or not, I 
quickly took my place on the altar. As soon as I was there, (13) the very same people, 
the students, the sisters, the superiors and my parents all began to hold their arms out to 
me asking for graces; and as for me, I did not bear any grudge against them for having 
thrown all sorts of things at me, and I was surprised that I felt a very special love precisely 
for those persons who had forced me to go more quickly to my appointed place. At the 
same time my soul was filled with ineffable happiness, and I heard these words, Do 
whatever you wish, distribute graces as you will, to whom you will and when you 
will. Then, instantly, the vision disappeared. 

32 Another time I heard these words, Go to the Superior and ask her to allow you to 
make a daily hour of adoration for nine days. During this adoration try to unite 
yourself in prayer with My Mother. Pray with all your heart in union with Mary, and 
try also during this time to make the Way of the Cross. I received the permission, 
though not for a full hour, but only for whatever time was left me after I had carried out my 
duties. 

33 I was to make this novena for the intention of my Motherland. On the seventh day of the 
novena I saw, between heaven and earth, the Mother of God, clothed in a bright robe. 

She was praying with Her hands folded on Her bosom, Her eyes fixed on Heaven. From 
Her Heart issued forth fiery rays, some of which were turned toward Heaven while the 
others were covering our country. 



32 




34 



When I told this and certain other things to my confessor 21 , he replied that these might 
really be coming from God, but that they might also be an illusion. Because of my 
frequent changes [of assignments], I did not have a permanent confessor and besides, I 
had great difficulty in speaking of these things. I prayed ardently that the Lord would give 
me that great grace - that is, a spiritual director. But my prayer was answered only after 
my perpetual vows, when I went to Vilnius. The priest was Father Sopocko. 22 God had 
allowed me to see him in an interior vision even before I came to Vilnius. 23 

35 Oh, if only I had had a spiritual director from the beginning, then I would not have wasted 
so many of God’s graces. A confessor can help a soul a great deal, but he can also 
cause it a lot of harm. Oh, how careful confessors should be about the work of God’s 
grace in their penitents’ souls! This is a matter of great importance. By the graces given 
to a soul, one can recognize the degree of its intimacy with God. 

36 (14) Once I was summoned to the judgment [seat] of God. I stood alone before the Lord. 
Jesus appeared such as we know Him during His Passion. After a moment, His wounds 
disappeared except for five, those in His hands, His feet and His side. Suddenly I saw 
the complete condition of my soul as God sees it. I could clearly see all that is 
displeasing to God. I did not know that even the smallest transgressions will have to be 
accounted for. What a moment! Who can describe it? To stand before the Thrice-Holy 
God! Jesus asked me, Who are you? I answered, “I am Your servant, Lord.” You are 
guilty of one day of fire in purgatory. I wanted to throw myself immediately into the 
flames of purgatory, but Jesus stopped me and said, Which do you prefer, suffer now 
for one day in purgatory or for a short while on earth? I replied, “Jesus, I want to 
suffer in purgatory, and I want to suffer also the greatest pains on earth, even if it were 
until the end of the world.” Jesus said, One [of the two] is enough; you will go back to 
earth, and there you will suffer much, but not for long; you will accomplish My will 
and My desires, and a faithful servant of Mine will help you to do this. Now, rest 
your head on My bosom, on My heart, and draw from its strength and power for 
these sufferings because you will find neither relief nor help nor comfort anywhere 
else. Know that you will have much, much to suffer, but don’t let this frighten you; 

I am with you. 

37 Soon afterwards I became ill 24 . Physical weakness was for me a school of patience. 

Only Jesus knows how many efforts of will I had to make to fulfill my duty. 25 

38 In order to purify a soul, Jesus uses whatever instruments He likes. My soul underwent a 
complete abandonment on the part of creatures; often my best intentions were 
misinterpreted by the sisters, 26 a type of suffering which is most painful; but God allows it, 
and we must accept it because in this way we become more like Jesus. There was one 
thing which I could not understand for a long time: Jesus ordered me to tell everything to 
my Superiors, but my Superiors did not believe what I said and treated me with pity as 
though I were being deluded or were imagining things. 

Because of this, believing myself to be deluded, I resolved to avoid god interiorly for fear 
of these illusions. (15) But the grace of God pursued me at every step, and god spoke to 
me when I least expected it. 



33 




39 + One day Jesus told me that He would cause a chastisement to fall upon the most 
beautiful city in our country [probably Warsaw], This chastisement would be that with 
which God had punished Sodom and Gomorrah 27 . I saw the great wrath of God and a 
shudder pierced my heart. I prayed in silence. After a moment, Jesus said to me, My 

child, unite yourself closely to Me during the Sacrifice and offer My Blood and My 
Wounds to My Father in expiation for the sins of that city. Repeat this without 
interruption throughout the entire Holy Mass. Do this for seven days. On the 

seventh day I saw Jesus in a bright cloud and began to beg Him to look upon the city and 
upon our whole country. Jesus looked [down] graciously. When I saw the kindness of 
Jesus, I began to beg His blessing. Immediately Jesus said, For your sake I bless the 
entire country. And He made a big sign of the cross over our country. Seeing the 
goodness of God, a great joy filled my soul. 

40 +The year 1 929. Once during Holy Mass, I felt in a very special way the closeness of 
God, although I tried to turn away and escape from Him. On several occasions I have run 
away from God because I did not want to be a victim of the evil spirit; since others have 
told me, more than once, that such is the case. And this incertitude lasted for quite some 
time. During Holy Mass, before Communion, we had the renewal of vows. When we had 
left our kneelers and had started to recite the formula for the vows, Jesus appeared 
suddenly at my side clad in a white garment with a golden girdle around His waist, and He 
said to me, I give you eternal love that your purity may be untarnished and as a sign 
that you will never be subject to temptations against purity. Jesus took off His 
golden cincture and tied it around my waist. 

Since then I have never experienced any attacks against this virtue, either in my heart or 
in my mind. I later understood that this was one of the greatest graces which the Most 
Holy Virgin Mary had obtained for me, as for many years I had been asking this grace of 
Her. Since that time I have experienced an increasing devotion to the Mother of God. 

She has taught me how to love God interiorly and also how to carry out His holy will in all 
things, O Mary, You are joy, because through You God descended to earth [and] into my 
heart. 

41 (16) On one occasion I saw a servant of God in the immediate danger of committing a 
mortal sin. I started to beg God to deign to send down upon me all the torments of hell 
and all the sufferings He wished if only this priest would be set free and snatched from the 
occasion of committing a sin. Jesus heard my prayer and, that very instant, I felt a crown 
of thorns on my head. The thorns penetrated my head with great force right into my 
brain. This lasted for three hours; the servant of God was set free from this sin, and his 
soul was strengthened by a special grace of God. 

42 + Once, on Christmas Day [1928], I felt the omnipotence and the presence of God 
surrounding me. And once more I fled from this interior meeting with the Lord. I asked 
Mother Superior for permission to go to Jozefinek 28 to visit the sisters there. The Superior 
gave us permission, and we started to get ready right after lunch. The other sisters were 
already waiting for me at the door of the convent while I ran to my cell to get my cloak. 

On my way back, as I was passing close to the little chapel, I saw Jesus standing in the 
doorway. He said to me, Go ahead, but I am taking your heart. Suddenly I felt that I 
had no heart in my chest. But the sisters were scolding me for lingering behind, saying 
that it was already getting late, so I quickly went along with them. But a sense of 



34 




uneasiness troubled me, and a strange longing invaded my soul, through no one knew 
what was happening except God. 

After we had been at Jozefinek for only a few minutes, I said to the sisters, “Let’s go back 
home.” The sisters asked for at least a moment’s rest, but my spirit could find no peace. 

I explained that we must return before dark; and in as much as we had quite a distance to 
go, we immediately returned home. When Mother Superior met us in the hallway she 
asked me, “Haven’t the sisters gone yet, or have they already returned?” I said that we 
had already returned because I did not want to be returning in the evening. I took off my 
cloak and immediately went to the little chapel. As soon as I entered Jesus said to me, 

Go to Mother Superior and tell her that you came back, not in order to reach home 
before dark, but because I had taken your heart. Even though this was very difficult 
for me, I went (17) to the Superior, and I told her frankly the real reason why I had come 
back so soon, and I asked pardon of the Lord for everything that had displeased Him. 

And then Jesus filled me with great joy. I understood that apart from God there is no 
contentment anywhere. 

43 On one occasion I saw two sisters who were about to enter hell. A terrible agony tore my 
soul; I prayed to God for them, and Jesus said to me, Go to Mother Superior and tell 
her that those two sisters are in danger of committing a mortal sin. The next day I 
told this to the Superior. One of them had already repented with great fervor and the 
other was going through a great struggle. 

44 One day Jesus said to me, I am going to leave this house.... Because there are 

things here which displease Me. And the Host came out of the tabernacle and came to 
rest in my hands and I, with joy, placed it back in the tabernacle. This was repeated a 
second time, and I did the same thing. Despite this, it happened a third time, but the Host 
was transformed into the living Lord Jesus, who said to me, I will stay here no longer! 

At this, a powerful love for Jesus rose up in my soul, I answered, “And I, I will not let You 
leave this house, Jesus!” And again Jesus disappeared while the Host remained in my 
hands. Once again I put it back in the chalice and closed it up in the tabernacle. And 
Jesus stayed with us. I undertook to make three days of adoration by way of reparation. 

45 Once Jesus said to me, Tell Mother General [Michael} that in this house.... Such and 
such a thing is being committed ... which displeases Me and offends Me greatly. I 

did not tell this to Mother right away, but the uneasiness which the Lord made me feel did 
not permit me to wait a minute longer, and I wrote immediately to Mother General, and 
peace returned to my soul. 

46 I often felt the Passion of the Lord Jesus in my body, although this was imperceptible [to 

others], and I rejoiced in it because Jesus wanted it so. But this lasted for only a short 
time. These sufferings set my soul afire with love for God and for immortal souls. Love 
endures everything, love is stronger than death, love fears nothing 

(18) + February 22, 1931 

47 In the evening, when I was in my cell, I saw the Lord Jesus clothed in a white garment. 
One hand [was] raised in the gesture of blessing, the other was touching the garment at 
the breast. From beneath the garment, slightly drawn aside at the breast, there were 
emanating two large rays, one red, the other pale. In silence I kept my gaze fixed on the 



35 




Lord; my soul was struck with awe, but also with great joy. After a while, Jesus said to 

me, Paint an image according to the pattern you see, with the signature: Jesus, I 
trust in You. I desire that this image be venerated, first in your chapel, and [then} 
throughout the world. 

48 I promise that the soul that will venerate this image will not perish. I also promise 
victory over [its] enemies already here on earth, especially at the hour of death. I 
Myself will defend it as My own glory. 

49 When I told this to my confessor 29 , I received this for a reply: “That refers to your soul.” 
He told me, “Certainly, pain God’s image in your soul.” When I came out of the 
confessional, I again heard words such as these: My image already is in your soul. I 
desire that there be a Feast of Mercy. I want this image, which you will paint with a 
brush, to be solemnly blessed on the first Sunday after Easter; that Sunday is to be 
the Feast of Mercy. 

50 + I desire that priests proclaim this great mercy of Mine towards souls of sinners. 
Let the sinner not be afraid to approach Me. The flames of mercy are burning Me - 
clamoring to be spent; I want to pour them out upon these souls. 

Jesus complained to me in these words, Distrust on the part of souls is tearing at My 
insides. The distrust of a chosen soul causes Me even greater pain; despite My 
inexhaustible love for them they do not trust Me. Even My death is not enough for 
them. Woe to the soul that abuses these [gifts]. 

51 (19) When I spoke about this to Mother Superior [Rose 30 , telling her] that God had asked 
this of me, she answered that Jesus should give some sign so that we could recognize 
Him more clearly. 

When I asked the Lord Jesus for a sign as a proof “that You are truly my God and Lord 
and that this request comes from You,” I heard this interior voice, I will make this all 
clear to the Superior by means of the graces which I will grant through this image. 

52 When I tried to run away from these interior inspirations, God said to me that on the Day 
of Judgment He would demand of me a great number of souls. 

Once, exhausted because of these various difficulties that had befallen me because of 
what Jesus had said to me and what He had demanded of me for the painting of this 
image, I made up my mind to approach Father Andrasz 31 before my perpetual vows, and 
to ask him to dispense me from all these interior inspirations and from the duty of painting 
this image. After having heard my confession, Father Andrasz gave me this answer: “I 
will dispense you from nothing, Sister; it is not right for you to turn away from these 
interior inspirations, but you must absolutely - and I say, absolutely - speak about them 
to your confessor; otherwise you will go astray despite the great graces you are receiving 
from God. 

For the present you are coming to me for confession, but understand, Sister, that you 
must have a permanent confessor; that is to say, a spiritual director.” 



36 




53 I was very upset by this. I thought that I would get myself free from everything, and it 
turned out quite the opposite - an explicit command to follow the requests of Jesus. And 
now, still another torment, as I had no permanent confessor. Even if I went to the same 
confessor for a certain period of time, I could not open my soul to him in respect to these 
graces, and this caused me ineffable pain. So I asked Jesus to give these graces to 
someone else, because I did not know how to make use of them and was only wasting 
them. “Jesus, have mercy on me; do not entrust such great things to me, as You see that 
I am a bit of dust and completely inept.” 

But the goodness of Jesus is infinite; He had promised me visible help here on earth, and 
a little while later I received it (20) in Vilnius, in the person of Father Sopocko. I had 
already known him before coming to Vilnius, thanks to an interior vision. One day I saw 
him in our chapel between the altar and the confessional and suddenly heard a voice in 
my soul say, This is the visible help for you on earth. He will help you carry out My 
will on earth. 

54 +One day, tired out with all these uncertainties, I asked Jesus, “Jesus, are You my God or 
some kind of phantom? Because my Superiors say that there are all sorts of illusions and 
phantoms. If You are my Lord, I beg You to bless me.” Then Jesus made a big sign of 
the cross over me and I, too, signed myself. When I asked pardon of Jesus for this 
question, He replied that I had in no way displeased Him by this question and that my 
confidence pleased Him very much. 

55 1933 Spiritual Counsel given Me 

by Father Andrasz, S.J. 

First : You must not turn away from these interior inspirations, but always tell everything 
to your confessor. If you recognize that these interior inspirations refer to your own self; 
that is to say, they are for the good of your soul or for the good of other souls, I urge you 
to follow them; and you must not neglect them, but always do so in consultation with your 
confessor. 

Second : If these inspirations are not in accord with the faith or the spirit of the Church, 
they must be rejected immediately as coming from the evil spirit. 

Third : If these inspirations do not refer to souls, in general, nor specifically to their good, 
you should not take them too seriously, and it would be better to even ignore them. 

But you should not make this decision by yourself, either one way or the other, as you can 
easily be led astray despite these great favors from God. Humility, humility, and ever 
humility, as we can do nothing of ourselves; all is purely and simply God’s grace. 

You say to me that God demands great trust from souls; well then, you be the first to 
show this trust. And one more word - accept all this with serenity. 

(21) Words of one of the confessors: “Sister, God is preparing many special graces for 
you, but try to make your life as clear as crystal before the Lord, paying no attention to 
what anyone else thinks about you. Let God suffice you; He alone.” 



37 




Toward the end of my novitiate, a confessor [perhaps Father Theodore] told me: “Go 
through life doing good, so that I could write on its pages: “She spent her life doing good.’ 
May God bring this about in you.” 

Another time the confessor said to me, “Comport yourself before God like the widow in 
the Gospel; although the coin she dropped into the box was of little value, it counted far 
more before god than all the big offerings of others.” 

On another occasion the instruction I received was this: “Act in such a way that all those 
who come in contact with you will go away joyful. Sow happiness about you because you 
have received much from god; give, the, generously to others. They should take leave of 
you with their hearts filled with joy, even if they have no more than touched the hem of 
your garment. Keep well in mind the words I am telling you right now.” 

Still another time he gave me the following recommendation: “Let God push your boat 
out into the deep waters, toward the unfathomable depths of the interior life.” 

Here are a few words from a conversation I had with the Mother Directress [Mary Joseph] 
toward the end of my novitiate: “Sister, let simplicity and humility by the characteristic 
traits of your soul. Go through life like a little child, always trusting, always full of 
simplicity and humility, content with everything, happy in every circumstance. There, 
where others fear, you will pass calmly along, thanks to this simplicity and humility. 
Remember this, Sister, for your whole life; as waters flow from the mountains down into 
the valleys, so, too, do God’s graces flow onto into humble souls.” 

55 O my God, I understand well that You demand this spiritual childhood 32 of me, 
because You are constantly asking it of me through Your representatives. 

(22) At the beginning of my religious life, suffering and adversities frightened and 
disheartened me. So I prayed continuously, asking Jesus to strengthen me and to grant 
me the power of his Holy Spirit that I might carry out His holy will in all things, because 
from the beginning I have been aware of my weakness. I know very well what I am of 
myself, because for this purpose Jesus has opened the eyes of my soul; I am an abyss of 
misery, and hence I understand that whatever good there is in my soul consists solely of 
His holy grace. The knowledge of my own misery allows me, at the same time, to know 
the immensity of Your mercy. In my own interior life, I am looking with one eye at the 
abyss of my misery and baseness, and with the other, at the abyss of Your mercy, O 
God. 

57 O my Jesus, You are the life of my life. You know only too well that I long for nothing but 
the glory of Your Name and that souls come to know Your goodness. Why do souls avoid 
You, Jesus? - I don’t understand that. Oh, if I could only cut my heart into tiny pieces and 
in this way offer to You, O Jesus, each piece as a heart whole and entire, to make up in 
part for the hearts that do not love You! I love You, Jesus, with every drop of my blood, 
and I would gladly shed my blood for You to give You a proof of the sincerity of my love. 

O God, the more I know You the less I can comprehend You, but this “non- 
comprehension” lets me realize how great You are! And it is this impossibility of 
comprehending You which enflames my heart anew for You, O Lord. From the moment 
when You let me fix the eyes of my soul on You, O Jesus, I have been at peace and 
desired nothing else, I found my destiny at the moment when my soul lost itself in You, 



38 




the only object of my love. In comparison with you, everything is nothing. Sufferings, 
adversities, humiliations, failures and suspicions that have come my way are splinters the 
keep alive the fire of my love for You, O Jesus. 

My desires are mad and unattainable. I wish to conceal from You that I suffer. I want 
(23) never to be rewarded for my efforts and my good actions, You Yourself, Jesus, are 
my only reward; You are enough, O Treasure of my heart! I want to share 
compassionately in the sufferings of my neighbors and to conceal my own sufferings, not 
only from them, but also from You, Jesus. 

Suffering is a great grace; through suffering the soul becomes like the Savior; in suffering 
love becomes crystallized; the greater the suffering, the purer the love. 

58 + One night, a sister who had died two months previously came to me. She was a sister 

of the first choir. I saw her in a terrible condition, all in flames with her face painfully 
distorted. This lasted only a short time, and then she disappeared. A shudder went 
through my soul because I did not know whether she was suffering in purgatory or in 
hell. Nevertheless, I redoubled my prayers for her. The next night she came again, but 
I saw her in an even more horrible state, in the midst of flames which were even more 
intense, and despair was written all over her face. I was astonished to see her in a 
worse condition after the prayers I had offered for her, and I asked, “Haven’t my prayers 
helped you?” She answered that my prayers had not helped her and that nothing would 
help her. I said to her, “And the prayers which the whole community has offered for 
you, have they not been any help to you?” She said no, that these prayers had helped 
some other souls. I replied, “If my prayers are not helping you, Sister, please stop 
coming to me.” She disappeared at once. Despite this, I kept on praying. 

After some time she came back again to me during the night, but already her 
appearance had changed. There were no longer any flames, as there had been before, 
and her face was radiant, her eyes beaming with joy. She told me that I had a true love 
for my neighbor and that many other souls had profited from my prayers. She urged me 
not to cease praying for the souls in purgatory, and she added that she herself would 
not remain there much longer. How astounding are the decrees of God! 

59 (24) 1933. On one occasion I heard these words in my soul. Make a novena for your 

country. This novena will consist of the recitation of the Litany of the Saints. Ask 
your confessor for permission {probably Father Sopocko or Father Andrasz], 

60 I received permission at my next confession and began the novena that very evening. 

Towards the end of the litany I saw a great radiance and, in the midst of it, God the 
Father. Between this radiance and the earth I saw Jesus, nailed to the Cross in such a 
way that when God wanted to look at the earth, He had to look through the wounds of 
Jesus. And I understood that it was for the sake of Jesus that God blesses the earth. 

61 O Jesus, I thank you for this great grace; namely, that You Yourself have deigned to 

choose a confessor for me, and that You had made him known to me in a vision even 
before I had met him {Father Sopocko]. When I went to confession to father Andrasz, I 
thought that I would be released from following these interior inspirations. Father 
replied that he could not dispense me from this, “but pray, Sister, that you be given a 
spiritual director.” 



39 




After a short but fervent prayer, I saw Father Sopocko for a second time, in our chapel, 
between the confessional and the altar. I was in Cracow at that time. These two 
visions bolstered up my spirit, all the more when I found him to be just as I had seen 
him in the visions, once at Warsaw during my third probation, and a second time at 
Cracow. O Jesus, I thank you for this great gift! And now when I hear people 
sometimes say that they have no confessor; that is to say, a director, fear takes hold of 
me, because I know very well how much harm I myself experienced when I did not have 
this help. It is so easy to go astray when one has no guide! 

62 O life so dull and monotonous, how many treasures you contain! When I look at 

everything with the eyes of faith, no two hours are alike, and the dullness and monotony 
disappear. The grace which is given me in this hour will not be repeated in the next. It 
may be given me again, but it will not be the same grace. Time goes on, never to return 
again. Whatever is enclosed in it will never change; it seals with a seal for eternity. 

63 ( 25 ) + Father Sopocko must be well loved by God. I say this because I myself have 

experienced how much God defends him at certain moments. When I see this, I rejoice 
greatly that God has such chosen ones. 

1929. The Trip to Calvary. 33 

64 When I came to Vilnius for two months to replace a sister who had gone for her third 

probation [Sister Peter, who worked in the kitchen], I stayed a little longer than two 
months. One day, the Mother Superior [Irene 34 ], wanting to give me a bit of pleasure, 
gave me permission to go, together with another sister, 35 to Calvary to “walk the paths,” 
as they say. I was delighted. Although it was not very far, it was Mother Superior’s 
wish that we should go by boat. That evening Jesus said to me, I want you to stay 
home. I answered, “Jesus, everything is ready for us to leave tomorrow morning; what 
am I to do now?” The Lord answered, This trip will be harmful to your soul. I replied 
to Jesus, “You can find a way out. Arrange things in such a way that Your will may be 
done.” At that moment the bell announced the time for sleep. I gave Jesus a parting 
glance and went to my cell. 

Next morning the weather was beautiful, and my companion was filled with joy at the 
prospect of the great pleasure we would have in getting to see everything. But as for 
me, I was sure we would not go, even though there were no obstacles for far. 

We were to receive Holy Communion earlier and leave right after the thanksgiving. But 
during the time of Communion, all of a sudden, the weather changed. Clouds covered 
the sky, and the rain came down in torrents. Everyone was astounded at such a 
sudden change in the weather. 

(26) Mother Superior said to me, “I am so sorry you cannot go, Sisters!” I answered, 
“Dear Mother, it doesn’t really matter that we cannot go; it was God’s will that we stay 
home.” However, no one knew that it was Jesus’ express desire that I stay home. I 
spent the whole day in recollection and meditation, thanking the Lord for having kept me 
home. That day, God granted me many heavenly consolations. 

65 One time during the novitiate, when Mother Directress sent me to work in the wards’ 



40 




kitchen, I was very upset because I could not manage the pots, which were very large. 
The most difficult task for me was draining the potatoes, and sometimes, I spilt half of 
them with the water. When I told this to Mother Directress, she said that with time I 
would get used to it and gain the necessary skill. Yet the task was not getting any 
easier, as I was growing weaker every day. So I would move away when it was time to 
drain the potatoes. The sisters noticed that I avoided this task and were very much 
surprised. They did not know that I could not help in spite of all my willingness to do this 
and not spare myself. At noon, during the examination of conscience, I complained to 
God about my weakness. Then I heard the following words in my soul. From today on 
you will do this easily; I shall strengthen you. 

That evening, when the time came to drain off the water from the potatoes, I hurried to 
be the first to do it, trusting in the Lord’s words. I took up the pot with ease and poured 
off the water perfectly. But when I took off the cover to let the potatoes steam off, I saw 
there in the pot, in the place of the potatoes, whole bunches of red roses, beautiful 
beyond description. I had never seen such roses before. Greatly astonished and 
unable to understand the meaning of this, I heard a voice within me saying, I change 
such hard work of yours into bouquets of most beautiful flowers, and their 
perfume rises up to My throne. From then on I have tried to drain the potatoes 
myself, not only during my week when it was my turn to cook, ( 27 ) but also in 
replacement of other sisters when it was their turn. And not only do I do this, but I try to 
be the first to help in any other burdensome task, because I have experienced how 
much this pleases God. 

66 O inexhaustible treasure of purity of intention which makes all our actions perfect and so 
pleasing to God! O Jesus, You know how weak I am; be then ever with me; guide my 
actions and my whole being. You who are my very best Teacher! Truly, Jesus, I 
become frightened when I look at my own misery, but at the same time I am reassured 
by Your unfathomable mercy, which exceeds my misery by the measure of all eternity. 
This disposition of soul clothes me in Your power. O joy that flows from the knowledge 
of one’s self! O unchanging Truth. Your constancy is everlasting! 

67 When I fell sick [probably the beginning of consumption] after my first vows and when, 
despite the kind and solicitous care of my Superiors and the efforts of the doctor, I felt 
neither better nor worse, remarks began to reach my ears which inferred that I was 
making believe. With that, my suffering was doubled, and this lasted for quite a long 
time. One day I complained to Jesus that I was being a burden to the sisters. Jesus 
answered me. You are not living for yourself but for souls, and other souls will 
profit from your sufferings. Your prolonged suffering will give them the light and 
strength to accept My will. 

68 The heaviest suffering for me was that it seemed to me that neither my prayers nor my 
good works were pleasing to God. I did not dare lift up my eyes to heaven. This 
caused me such great suffering during the community exercises in the chapel that one 
day Mother Superior [Raphael] called me aside after the exercises and said to me, 
“Sister, ask God for grace and consolation, because I can see for myself ( 28 ) and the 
sisters keep telling me that the very sight of you evokes pity. I really do not know what 
to do with you, Sister. I command you to stop tormenting yourself for no reason.” 



41 




But all these conferences with Mother Superior brought me no relief, nor did they clarify 
anything for me. Rather, even greater darkness hid God from me. I looked for help in 
the confessional but not even there did I find it. A saintly priest wanted to help me, but I 
was so miserable that I couldn’t even define my trouble, and that vexed me even more. 
A deathly sadness penetrated me soul to such an extent that I was unable to hide it, 
and it was apparent to those around me. I lost hope. The night was growing darker and 
darker. The priest to whom I went to confession said to me, “I see very special graces 
in you, Sister, and I am not worried about you at all; why are you torturing yourself in 
this way?” But at that time I did not understand at all what he was saying and was 
extremely surprised when, by way of penance, I was ordered to say the Te Deum or the 
Magnificat, or to run fast around the garden in the evening, or else to laugh out loud ten 
times a day. These penances were very surprising to me; but even with that the priest 
was not able to give me much help. Evidently, God wanted me to give Him glory 
through suffering. 

That priest consoled me, saying that in my present situation I was more pleasing to God 
than if I were filled with the greatest consolations. “It is a very great grace, Sister,” he 
told, “that in your present condition, with all the torments of soul you are experiencing, 
you not only do not offend God, but you even try to practice virtues. I am looking into 
your soul, and I see God’s great plans and special graces there; and seeing this, I give 
thanks to the Lord.” But despite all that, my soul was in a state of torture; and in the 
midst of unspeakable torments, I imitated the blind man who entrusts himself to his 
guide, holding his hand firmly, not giving up obedience for a single moment, and this 
was my only safety in this fiery trial. 

69 ( 29 ) + O Jesus, eternal Truth, strengthen my feeble forces; You can do all things, Lord. 

I know that without You all my efforts are in vain. O Jesus, do not hide from me, for I 
cannot live without You. Listen to the cry of my soul, Your mercy has not been 
exhausted, Lord, so have pity on my misery. Your mercy surpasses the understanding 
of all Angels and people put together; and so, although it seems to me that You do not 
hear me, I put my trust in the ocean of Your mercy, and I know that my hope will not be 
deceived. 

70 Only Jesus knows how burdensome and difficult it is to accomplish one’s duties when 
the soul is so interiorly tortured, the physical powers so weakened and the mind 
darkened. In the silence of my heart I kept saying to myself, “O Christ, may delights, 
honor and glory be Yours, and suffering be mine. I will not lag one step behind as I 
follow You, though thorns wound my feet.” 

71 I was sent for treatment to our house in Plock, and there I had the privilege of 
decorating the chapel with flowers. That was at Biala. 36 Sister Thecla did not always 
have time for this, so I often decorated the chapel by myself. One day, I had picked the 
prettiest roses to decorate the room of a certain person. When I was approaching the 
porch, I saw Jesus standing there. In a kindly way He asked me, My daughter, to 
whom are you taking these flowers? My silence was my reply to the Lord, because I 
recognized immediately that I had a very subtle attachment to this person, 37 which I had 
not noticed before. Suddenly Jesus disappeared. At the same moment I threw the 
flowers on the ground and went before the Blessed Sacrament, my heart filled with 
gratitude for the grace of knowing myself. 



42 




O Divine Sun, in Your rays the soul sees the tiniest specks of dust which displease You. 



72 (30) O Jesus, eternal Truth, our Life, I call upon You and I beg Your mercy for poor 
sinners. O sweetest Heart of my Lord, full of pity and unfathomable mercy, I plead with 
You for poor sinners. O Most Sacred Heart, Fount of Mercy from which gush forth rays 
of inconceivable graces upon the entire human race, I beg of You light for poor sinners. 
O Jesus, be mindful of Your own bitter Passion and do not permit the loss of souls 
redeemed at so dear a price of Your most precious Blood. O Jesus, when I consider 
the great price of Your Blood, I rejoice at its immensity, for one drop alone would have 
been enough for the salvation of all sinners. Although sin is an abyss of wickedness 
and ingratitude, the price paid for us can never be equalled. Therefore, let every soul 
trust in the Passion of the Lord, and place its hope in His mercy. God will not deny His 
mercy to anyone. Heaven and earth may change, but God’s mercy will never be 
exhausted. Oh, what immense joy burns in my heart when I contemplate Your 
incomprehensible goodness, O Jesus! I desire to bring all sinners to Your feet that they 
may glorify Your mercy throughout endless ages. 

73 O my Jesus, despite the deep night that is all around me and the dark clouds which hide 
the horizon, I know that the sun never goes out. O Lord, though I cannot comprehend 
You and do not understand Your ways, I nonetheless trust in Your mercy. If it is Your 
will, Lord, that I live always in such darkness, may You be blessed. I ask You only one 
thing, Jesus: do not allow me to offend You in any way. O my Jesus, You alone know 
the longings and the sufferings of my heart. I am glad I can suffer for You, however 
little. When I feel that the suffering is more than I can bear, I take refuge in the Lord in 
the Blessed Sacrament, and I speak to Him with profound silence. 

(31) The Confession of One of Our Wards. 

74 One day I felt driven to take steps to see to it that the Feast of Mercy be instituted and 
the image of the Merciful Jesus be painted, and I could find no peace. Something was 
pervading my whole being, and yet I feared being deluded. However, these doubts 
always came from outside, because in the depths of my soul I felt it was the Lord who 
was penetrating my being. The priest to whom I was going to confession at that time 
told me that one can often have illusions, and I felt that he was somewhat afraid to hear 
my confession. This was a torture for me. Seeing that I was getting very little help from 
people, I turned all the more to Jesus, the best of all teachers. At one time, when I was 
filled with doubts as to whether the voice I heard came from the Lord or not, I began to 
speak to Jesus interiorly without forming any words. Suddenly an inner force took hold 
of me and I said, “If You who commune with me and talk to me are truly my God, I beg 
You, O Lord, to make this ward go this very day to confession; this sign will give me 
reassurance.” At that very moment, the girl asked to go to confession. 

75 But these doubts always come from without, a fact which inclined me to close myself up 
more and more within myself. When, during confession, I sense uncertainty on the part 
of the priest, I do not open my soul to its depths, but only accuse myself of my sins. A 
priest who is not at peace with himself will not be able to inspire peace in another soul. 

O priests, you bright candles enlightening human souls, let your brightness never be 
dimmed. I understood that at that time it was not God’s will that I uncover my soul 
completely. Later on, God did give me this grace. 



43 




76 (32) O my Jesus, direct my mind, take possession of my whole being, enclose me in 

the depths of Your Heart, and protect me against the assaults of the enemy. My only 
hope is in You. Speak through my mouth when I, wretchedness itself, find myself with 
the mighty and wise, so that they will know that this undertaking is Yours and comes 
from You. 



Darkness and Temptations 

77 My mind became dimmed in a strange way; no truth seemed clear to me. When people 
spoke to me about God, my heart was like a rock. I could not draw from it a single 
sentiment of love for Him. When I tried, by an act of the will, to remain close to Him, I 
experienced great torments, and it seemed to me that I was only provoking God to an 
even greater anger. It was absolutely impossible for me to meditate as I had been 
accustomed to do in the past. I felt in my soul a great void, and there was nothing with 
which I could fill it. I began to suffer from a great hunger and yearning for God, but I 
saw my utter powerlessness. I tried to read slowly, sentence by sentence, and to 
meditate in this way, but this also was of no avail. I understood nothing of what I had 
read. 

The abyss of my misery was constantly before my eyes. Every time I entered the 
chapel for some spiritual exercise, I experienced even worse torments and temptations. 
More than once, all through Holy Mass, I had to struggle against blasphemous thoughts 
which were forcing themselves to my lips. I felt an aversion for the Holy Sacraments, 
and it seemed to me that I was not profiting from them in any way. It was only out of 
obedience to my confessor that I frequented them, and this blind obedience was for me 
the only path I could follow and my very last hope of survival. The priest explained to 
me that these were trials sent by God and that, in the situation I was in, not only was I 
not offending God, but I was most pleasing to Him. (33) “This is a sign,” he told me, 

“that God loves you very much and that He has great confidence in you, since He is 
sending you such trials.” But these words brought me no comfort; it seemed to me that 
they did not apply to me at all. 

One thing did surprise me: it often happened that, at the time when I was suffering 
greatly, these terrible torments would disappear suddenly just as I was approaching the 
confessional; but as soon as I had left the confessional, all these torments would again 
seize me with even great ferocity. I would then fall on my face before the Blessed 
Sacrament repeating these words: “Even if You kill me, still will I trust in You!” [cf. Job 
1 3:1 5] It seemed to me that I would die in these agonies. But the most terrible thought 
for me was the conviction that I had been rejected by god. Then other thoughts came to 
me: why strive to acquire virtues and do good works? Why mortify and annihilate 
yourself? What good is it to take vows? To pray? To sacrifice and immolate yourself? 
Why sacrifice myself all the time? What good is it - if I am already rejected by God? 

Why all these efforts? And here, God alone knew what was going on in my heart. 

78 Once when I was being crushed by these dreadful sufferings, I went into the chapel and 
said from the bottom of my soul, “Do what You will with me, O Jesus, I will adore You in 
everything. May Your will be done in me, O my Lord and my God, and I will praise Your 
infinite mercy.” Through this act of submission, these terrible torments left me. 

Suddenly I saw Jesus, who said to me, I am always in your heart. An inconceivable 



44 




joy entered my soul, and a great love of God set my heart aflame. I see that God never 
tries us beyond what we are able to suffer. Oh, I fear nothing; if god sends such great 
suffering to a soul. He upholds it with an even greater grace, although we are not 
aware of it. One act of trust at such moments give greater glory to God than whole 
hours passed in prayer filled with consolations. Now I see that if God wants to keep a 
soul in darkness, no book, no confessor can bring it light. 

79 (34) O Mary, my Mother and my Lady, I offer You my soul, my body, my life and my 
death, and all that will follow it. I place everything in Your hands. O my Mother, cover 
my soul with Your virginal mantle and grant me the grace of purity of heart, soul and 
body. Defend me with Your power against all enemies, and especially against those 
who hide their malice behind the mask of virtue. O lovely lily! You are for me a mirror, 

O my Mother! 

80 O Jesus, Divine Prisoner of Love, when I consider Your love and how You emptied 
Yourself for me, my senses fail me. You hide Your inconceivable majesty and lower 
Yourself to miserable me. O King of Glory, through You hide Your beauty, yet the eye 
of my soul rends the veil. I see the angelic choirs giving You honor without cease, and 
all the heavenly Powers praising You without cease, and without cease they are saying: 
Holy, Holy, Holy. 

Oh, who will comprehend Your love and Your unfathomable mercy toward us! O 
Prisoner of Love, I lock up my poor heart in this tabernacle, that it may adore You 
without cease night and day. I know of no obstacle in this adoration, and even though I 
be physically distant, my heart is always with You. Nothing can put a stop to my love for 
You. No obstacles exist for me. O my Jesus, I will console You for all the ingratitude, 
the blasphemies, the coldness, the hatred of the wicked, the sacrileges. O Jesus, I 
want to burn as a pure offering and to be consumed before the throne of Your 
hiddenness. I plead with You unceasingly for poor dying sinners. 

81 O Holy Trinity, One and Indivisible God, may You be blessed for this great gift and 
testament of mercy. My Jesus, to atone for blasphemers I will keep silent when 
unjustly reprimanded and in this way make partial amends to You. I am singing 
within my soul an unending hymn to You, and no one will suspect or understand this. 
The song of my soul is known to You alone, O my Creator and Lord! 

82 (35) I will not allow myself to be so absorbed in the whirlwind of work as to forget 
about God. I will spend all me free moments at the feet of the Master hidden in the 
Blessed Sacrament. He has been tutoring me from my most tender years. 

83 Write this: before I come as the Just Judge, I am coming first as the King of 
Mercy. Before the day of justice arrives, there will be given to people a sign in 
the heavens of this sort: 

All light in the heavens will be extinguished, and there will be great darkness over 
the whole earth. Then the sign of the cross will be seen in the sky, and from the 
openings where the hands and the feet of the Savior were nailed will come forth 
great lights which will light up the earth for a period of time. This will take place 
shortly before the last day. 



45 




84 O Blood and Water, which gushed forth from the Heart of Jesus as a fount of mercy 
for us, I trust in You! 

Vilnius, August 2, 1934. 

85 On Friday, after Holy Communion, I was carried in spirit before the throne of God. 
There I saw the heavenly Powers which incessantly praise God. Beyond the throne 
I saw a brightness inaccessible to creatures, and there only the Incarnate Word 
enters as Mediator. When Jesus entered this light, I heard these words, Write down 
at once what you hear: I am the Lord in My essence and am immune to orders 
or needs. If I call creatures into being - that is the abyss of My mercy. And at 
that very moment I found myself, as before, in our chapel at my kneeler, just as 
Mass had ended. I already had these words written. 

86 + [Once] when I saw how much my confessor [probably Father Sopocko] was to 
suffer because of this work which God was going to carry out through him, fear 
seized me for the moment, and I said to the Lord, “Jesus, this is Your affair, so why 
are You acting this way (36) toward him? It seems to me that you are making 
difficulties for him while at the same time ordering him to act.” 

Vilnius, October 26, 1934 

87 On Friday at ten minutes to six, when I and some of our wards 38 were coming in 
from the garden to supper, I saw the Lord Jesus above our chapel, looking just as 
He did the first time I saw Him and just as He is painted in the image. The two rays 
which emanated from the Heart of Jesus covered our chapel and the infirmary, and 
then the whole city, and spread out over the whole world. This lasted about four 
minutes and disappeared. One of the girls, who was walking with me a little behind 
the others, also saw these rays, but she did not see Jesus, and she did not know 
from where these rays were emanating. She was overwhelmed and told the other 
girls. They began to laugh at her, suggesting that she was imagining things or that 
perhaps it was light reflected by a passing airplane. But she persisted in her 
conviction, saying that never had she seen such rays before. When the others 
suggested that it might have been a searchlight, she replied that she knew very well 
what a searchlight was like, but never had she seen rays such as these. 

After supper the girl approached me and told me she had been so moved by these rays that 
she could not keep silent, but wanted to tell everyone about them. Yet she had not seen 
Jesus. She kept telling me about these rays, and this put me in an awkward situation, as 
I could not tell her that I had seen the Lord Jesus. I prayed for her, asking the Lord to 
give her those graces of which she had such need. My heart rejoiced in the fact that 
Jesus takes the initiative to make Himself known, even though the occasion of such 
action on His part causes me annoyance. For Jesus, one car bear anything. 

88 ( 37 ) + During adoration I felt God close to me. A moment later I saw Jesus and Mary. At 
the sight of them I was filled with joy, and asked the Lord, “What is Your will, Jesus, 
concerning the matter about which my confessor told me to ask You?” Jesus replied, It is 

My will that he should remain here and that he should not take the initiative of 
dispensing himself. I asked Jesus whether the inscription could be: “Christ, King of 
Mercy.” He answered, I am King of Mercy, but He did not say “Christ.” I desire that 
this image be displayed in public on the first Sunday after Easter. That Sunday is 



46 




the Feast of Mercy. Through the Word Incarnate, I make known the bottomless 
depth of My mercy. 

89 + Strangely, all things came about just as the Lord had requested. In fact, it was on the 
first Sunday after Easter [April, 1935] that the image was publicly honored by crowds of 
people for the first time. For three days it was exposed and received public veneration. 
Since it was placed at the very top of a window at Ostra Brama [Shrine of Our Lady, 
above the “Eastern Gate” to the city of Vilnius], it could be seen from a great distance. At 
Ostra Brama, during these three days, the closing of the Jubilee of the Redemption of the 
world was being celebrated, marking the nineteen hundred years that have passed since 
the Passion of our Savior. I see now that the work of Redemption is bound up with the 
work of mercy requested by the Lord. 

90 One day, I saw interiorly how much my confessor would have to suffer: friends will desert 
you while everyone will rise up against you and your physical strength will diminish. I saw 
you as a bunch of grapes chosen by the Lord and thrown into the press of suffering. Your 
soul, Father, will at times be filled with doubts about this work and about me. 

I saw that God himself seemed to be opposing [him], and I asked the Lord why He was 
acting in this way toward him, as though He were placing obstacles in the way of his 
doing what He himself had asked him to do. And the Lord said, I am acting thus with 
him to give testimony that this work is Mine. Tell him (38) not to fear anything; My 
gaze is on him day and night. There will be as many crowns to form his crown as 
there will be souls saved by this work, it is not for the success of a work, but for 
the suffering that I give reward. 

91 O my Jesus, You alone know what persecutions I suffer, and this only because I am 
being faithful to You and following Your orders. You are my strength; sustain me that I 
may always carry out what You ask of me. Of myself I can do nothing, but when You 
sustain me, all difficulties are nothing for me. O my Lord, I can see very well that from the 
time when my soul first received the capacity to know You, my life has been a continual 
struggle which has become increasingly intense. 

Every morning during meditation, I prepare myself for the whole day’s struggle. Holy 
Communion assures me that I will win the victory; and so it is. I fear the day when I do 
not receive Holy Communion. This Bread of the Strong gives me all the strength I need 
to carry on my mission and the courage to do whatever the Lord asks of me. The 
courage and strength that are in me are not of me, but of Him who lives in me - it is the 
Eucharist. 

O my Jesus, the misunderstandings are so great; sometimes, were it not for the 
Eucharist, I would not have the courage to go any further along the way You have marked 
out for me. 

92 Humiliation is my daily food. I understand that the bride must herself share in everything 
that is the groom’s; and so His cloak of mockery must cover me, too. At those times 
when I suffer much, I try to remain silent, as I do not trust my tongue which, at such 
moments, is inclined to talk for itself, while its duty is to help me praise God for all the 
blessings and gifts which He has given me. When I receive Jesus in Holy Communion, I 
ask Him fervently to deign to heal my tongue so that I would offend neither God nor 



47 




neighbor by it. I want my tongue to praise God without cease. Great are the faults 
committed by the tongue. The soul will not attain sanctity if it does not keep watch over 
its tongue. 

93 ( 39 ) + A Short Version of the Catechism of the Vows 39 . 

Q. What is a vow? 

A. A vow is a voluntary promise made to God, to carry out a more perfect act. 

Q. Is a vow binding in a matter which is the object of a commandment? 

A. Yes. The carrying out of an act which is the object of a commandment has a double 
value and merit; and the neglect of such an act is a double transgression and evil, 
because by breaking such a vow we add to the sin against the commandment, the sin of 
sacrilege. 

Q. Why do religious vows have such value? 

A. Because they are the foundation of the religious life approved by the Church, in which 
the members bound together in a religious community undertake to strive always for 
perfection by means of the three religious vows of poverty, chastity and obedience, 
observed according to the rules. 

Q. What is the meaning of the words, “strive for perfection?” 

A. To strive for perfection means that the religious life does not in itself demand that 
perfection be already attained, but obliges, under the pain of sin, that we work daily to 
attain it. Therefore, a religious who does not want to become perfect neglects his 
principal duty of state. 

Q. What are “solemn” religious vows? 

A. “Solemn” religious vows are so absolute that, in extraordinary cases, only the Holy 
Father can dispense from them. 

Q. What are simple religious vows? 

A. These are vows which are less absolute - the Holy See dispenses from perpetual and 
annual vows. 

( 40 ) Q. What is the difference between a vow and a virtue? 

A. A vow pertains only to that which is commanded under pain of sin; the virtue goes 
beyond this and helps in the carrying out of the vow; on the other hand, by breaking the 
vow we fail in the virtue and do it damage. 

Q. To what do the religious vows oblige us? 

A. The religious vows oblige us to strive to acquire the virtues and to submit ourselves 
completely to our Superiors and to the Rules which are in force; thus, the religious gives 
his own person to the Community, renouncing every right over himself and his actions, 
which he sacrifices to the service of God. 

The Vow of Poverty 



48 




The vow of poverty is the voluntary renunciation of the right over property or to the use of 
such property with the purpose of pleasing God. 



Q. What objects does the vow of poverty concern? 

A. All those goods and those objects which appertain to the Community. We have no 
longer any right over anything that has been given to us, once it has been accepted, 
whether an article or money. All these donations and presents, which may have been 
given us out of gratitude or in any other way, belong by right to the Community. We 
cannot make use, without violating the vow, of any wages we may receive for work or 
even any annuity. 

Q. When do we break or violate the vow in a matter which entails the seventh 
commandment? 

A. We break or violate it when, without permission, we take for ourselves anything that 
belongs to the house; when, without permission, we retain something on order to 
appropriate it; and when, without authorization, we sell or exchange something that 
belongs to the Community. When we make use of an object for some other purpose 
than that intended by the Superior. When we give to, or accept from another, anything 
whatsoever without permission. When, by negligence, we destroy or damage 
something. When, in going from one house to another, we take something with us 
without permission. In a situation where the vow is broken, the religious ( 41 ) is bound 
to restitution to the Community. 

The Virtue of Poverty 

This is an evangelical virtue which impels the heart to detach itself from temporal things; 

the religious, in virtue of his profession is strictly obliged to it. 

Q. When do we sin against the virtue of poverty? 

A. When we desire something, contrary to this virtue. When we become attached to 
something, and when we make use of superfluous things. 

Q. How many degrees of poverty are there and what are they? 

A. There are, in practice, four degrees of poverty for one who is a professed religious; to 
dispose of nothing without the consent of the Superiors (the strict matter of the vow); 
to avoid superfluities and be content with necessities (this pertains to the virtue); to 
readily content oneself with things of inferior quality in what concerns one’s cell, 
clothing, nourishment, etc., and to experience this contentment interiorly; to rejoice in 
extreme poverty. 

The Vow of Chastity 

Q. To what does this vow oblige us? 

A. To renounce marriage and to avoid everything that is forbidden by the sixth and ninth 
commandments. 

Q. Is a fault against the virtue a violation of the vow? 

A. Every fault against the virtue is at the same time a violation of the vow, because here 
there is no difference as in the case of poverty and obedience, between the vow and 
the virtue. ( 42 ) 



49 




Q. Is every bad thought a sin? 

A No, every bad thought is not a sin; it becomes so only when the acquiescence of the 
will and consent are joined to the consideration of the mind. 

Q. Is there anything, over and above sins against chastity, which is detrimental to the 
virtue? 

A. Lack of custody of the senses, of the imagination, of the feelings; familiarity and 
sentimental friendships are detrimental to the virtue. 

Q. What are the means by which this virtue may be preserved? 

A. To conquer interior temptations with the thought of the presence of God, and 
moreover to fight without fear. And for exterior temptations, to avoid occasions. 
There are, in all, seven principal means: to guard the senses, to avoid occasions, to 
avoid idleness, to remove temptations promptly, to remove oneself from all - and 
especially particular friendships, the spirit of mortification, and to reveal all these 
temptations to one’s confessor. 

Besides this, there are also five means of preserving this virtue: humility, the spirit of 
prayer, modesty of the eyes, fidelity to the rule, a sincere devotion to the Blessed 
Virgin Mary. 



The Vow of Obedience 

The vow of obedience is superior to the first two. It is, to tell the truth, a holocaust, and it 

is more necessary because it forms and animates the monastic body. 

Q. To what does the vow of obedience oblige us? 

A. By the vow of obedience, the religious promises to God to be obedient to his 

legitimate superiors in everything that they will ordain in virtue of the rule. The vow of 
obedience makes the religious dependent on his superior in virtue of these rules for 
his whole life and in all his affairs. A religious commits a grave sin against the vow 
every time he disobeys and order given (43) in virtue of obedience and of these rules. 

The virtue of obedience goes further than the vow; it embraces the rules, the 
regulations and even the counsels of the superiors. 

Q. Is the virtue of obedience indispensable for a religious? 

A. The virtue of obedience is so indispensable to a religious that, even if he were to 
perform good actions contrary to obedience, these would be evil and without merit. 

Q. Can we sin gravely against the virtue of obedience? 

A. We sin gravely when we scorn the authority or the order of the superior, or when 
spiritual or temporal harm to the community results from our disobedience. 

Q. What faults endanger the vow? 

A. To be prejudiced against the superior, or to harbor an antipathy for him - murmuring 
and criticism, tardiness and negligence. 

The Degrees of Obedience 



50 




Prompt and complete fulfillment - the obedience of the will, when the will persuades the 
intellect to submit to the advice of the superior. To facilitate obedience, Saint Ignatius 
suggests, moreover, three means: always to see God in our superior, whoever he might 
be; to justify in itself the order or advice of the superior; to accept each order as an order 
from God, without examining it or reflecting on it. General means: humility. Nothing is 
difficult for the humble. 

94 ( 44 ) O my Lord, inflame my heart with love for You, that my spirit may not grow weary 
amidst the storms, the sufferings and the trials. You see how weak I am. Love can do all. 

95 + A Deeper Knowledge of God and the Terror of the Soul. 

In the beginning, God lets himself be known as Holiness, Justice, Goodness - that is to 
say, Mercy. The soul does not come to know this all at once, but piecemeal, in flashes; 
that is to say, when God draws near. And this does not last for long because the soul 
could not bear such light. During prayer the soul experiences flashes of this light which 
make it impossible to pray as before. Try as it may to force itself to pray as it did before, 
all is in vain; it becomes completely impossible for it to continue to pray as it did before it 
received this light. This light which has touched the soul is alive within it, and nothing can 
either quench or diminish it. This flash of the knowledge of God draws the soul and 
enkindles its love for Him. 

But this same flash, at the same time, allows the soul to know itself as it is; the soul sees 
its whole interior in a superior light, and it rises up alarmed and terrified. Still, it does not 
remain under the effects of terror, but it begins to purify itself, to humble and abase itself 
before the Lord. These lights become stronger and more frequent; the more the soul is 
crystallized, t5he more these lights penetrate it. However, if the soul has responded 
faithfully and courageously to these first graces, God fills it with His consolations and 
gives himself to it in a perceptible manner. At certain moments, the soul, as it were, 
enters into intimacy with God and greatly rejoices in this; it believes that it has already 
reached the degree of perfection destined for it, because its defects and faults are asleep 
within it, and this makes it think that they no longer exist. Nothing seems difficult for it; it 
is ready for everything. It begins to plunge itself into God and taste the divine delights. It 
is carried along by grace and does not take account of the fact that the time of trial and 
testing may come. And, in fact, this state does not last long. Other moments will soon 
come. I should add here, however, that the soul will respond more faithfully to divine 
grace if it has a well-informed confessor to whom it can confide everything. 

96 ( 45 ) + Trials sent by God to a soul which is particularly loved by Him. Temptations and 
darkness; Satan. 

The soul’s love [for God] is still not such as God would have it. The soul suddenly loses 
the tangible perception of God’s presence. Various defects and imperfections rise up 
within it, and it must fight them furiously. All her faults lift up their heads, but the soul’s 
vigilance is great. The former awareness of the presence of God gives place to coldness 
and spiritual dryness; the soul has no taste for spiritual exercises; it cannot pray, either in 
the old way, or in the manner in which it had just begun to pray. It struggles this way and 
that, but can find no satisfaction. God has hidden himself from it, and it can find no 
consolation in creatures, nor can any of these creatures find a way of consoling it. The 
soul craves passionately for God, but sees its own misery; it begins to sense God’s 



51 




justice; it seems to it that it has lost all the gifts that God had given it; its mind is dimmed, 
and darkness fills it; unspeakable torment begins. The soul tries to explain its state to the 
confessor, but it is not understood and is assailed by an even greater unrest. Satan 
begins his work. 

97 Faith staggers under the impact; the struggle is fierce. The soul tries hard to cling to God 
by an act of will. With God’s permission, Satan goes even further: hope and love are put 
to the test. These temptations are terrible. God supports the soul in secret, so to speak. 
The soul is not aware of this, but otherwise it would be impossible to stand firm, and god 
knows very well how much He can allow to befall a soul. The soul is tempted to unbelief 
in respect to revealed truths and to insincerity toward the confessor. Satan says to it, 
“Look, no one understands you; why speak about all this?” Words that terrify it sound in 
its ears, and it seems to the soul that it is uttering these against God. It sees what it does 
not want to see. It hears what it does not want to hear. And, oh, it is a terrible thing at 
times like these not to have an experienced confessor! The soul carries the whole burden 
alone. However, one should make very effort to find, if it is all possible a well-informed 
confessor, for the soul can collapse under the burden and come to the very edge of the 
precipice. ( 46 ) All these trials are heavy and difficult. God does not send them to a soul 
which has not already been admitted to a deeper intimacy with Him and which has not yet 
tasted the divine delights. Besides, in this God has His own plans, which for us are 
impenetrable. God often prepares a soul in this way for His future designs and great 
works. He wants to try it as pure gold is tried. But this is not yet the end of the testing; 
there is still the trial of trials, the complete abandonment of the soul by God. 

+ The Trial of Trials, 

Complete Abandonment - Despair 

98 When the soul comes out victorious from the preceding trials, even though it may stumble 
here and there, it fights on valiantly, humbly calling upon God, “Save me, I am perishing!” 
And it is still able to fight on. 

At this point, however, the soul is engulfed in a horrible night. It sees within itself only sin. 
It feels terrible. It sees itself completely abandoned by God. It feels itself to be the object 
of His hatred. It is but one step away from despair. The soul does its best to defend 
itself; it tries to stir up its confidence; but prayer is an even greater torment for it, as this 
prayer seems to arouse God to an even greater anger. The soul finds itself poised on the 
summit of a lofty mountain on the very brink of a precipice. 

The soul is drawn to God, but feels repulsed. All other sufferings and tortures in the world 
are as nothing compared with this sensation into which it has been plunged; namely, that 
of being rejected by God. No one can bring it any relief; it finds itself completely alone; 
there is no one to defend it. It raises its eyes to heaven, but is convinced that this is not 
for her - for her all is lost. It falls deeper and deeper from darkness to darkness, and it 
seems to it that it has lost forever the God it used to love so dearly. This thought is 
torture beyond all description. But the soul does not agree to it and tries to lift its gaze 
toward heaven, but in vain! And this makes the torture even more intense. 

( 47 ) If God wishes to keep the soul in such darkness, no one will be able to give it light. It 
experiences rejection by God in a vivid and terrifying manner. From its heart burst forth 
painful moans, so painful that no priest will comprehend it, unless he himself has been 



52 




through these trials. In the midst of this, the evil spirit adds to the soul’s suffering, 
mocking it: “Will you persist in your faithfulness? This is your reward; you are in our 
power!” But Satan has only as much influence over the soul as God allows him, and God 
knows how much we can bear. “What have you gotten out of your mortifications,” says 
Satan, “and out of your fidelity to the rule? What use are all these efforts? You have 
been rejected by God!” This word, rejected, becomes a fire which penetrates every nerve 
to the marrow of the bone. It pierces right through her entire being. The ordeal reaches 
its climax. The soul no longer looks for help anywhere. It shrinks into itself and loses 
sight of everything; it is as though it has accepted the torture of being abandoned. This is 
a moment for which I have no words. This is the agony of the soul. 

99 When for the first time this moment was drawing near, I was snatched from it by virtue of 
holy obedience. The Directress of Novices, alarmed by me appearance, sent me off to 
confession, but the confessor did not understand me, and I experienced no relief 
whatsoever. O Jesus, give us experienced priests! 

When I told this priest I was undergoing infernal tortures, he answered that he was not 
worried about my soul, because he saw in it a great grace of God. But I understood 
nothing of this, and not even the least glimmer of light broke through to my soul. 

100 Then my physical strength began to fail me, and I could no longer carry out my duties. 

Nor could I any longer hide my sufferings. Although I did not say a word about them, the 
look of pain on my face betrayed me. The Superior told me that the sisters had come to 
her saying that, when they look at me in the chapel, they are moved to pity because I look 
so terrible. Yet, despite all efforts, the soul is unable to conceal such suffering. 

1 01 Jesus, You alone know how the soul, engulfed in darkness, moans in the midst of these 
torments and, despite all this, thirsts for God as burning lips thirst for water. It dies and 
withers; it dies a death without death; that is to say, it cannot die. All its efforts come to 
nothing; it is under a powerful hand. (48) Now the soul comes under the power of the 
Just One. Al exterior temptations cease; all that surrounds it becomes silent, like a dying 
person who loses contact with everything ar9ound it; the person’s entire soul is in the 
hand of the Just God, the Thrice-Holy God, - rejected for all eternity! This is the 
culminating moment, and God alone can test a soul in this way, because He alone knows 
that the soul can endure. 

When the soul has been saturated through and through by this infernal fire, it is, as it 
were, cast headlong into great despair. My soul experienced this moment when I was all 
alone in my cell. When my soul began to sink into this despair, I felt that the end was 
near. But I seized my little crucifix and clutched it tightly in my hand. And now I felt my 
body separate itself from my soul; and though I wanted to go to my Superiors, I no longer 
had the physical strength. I uttered my last words: “I trust in Your Mercy!” - and it 
seemed to me that I provoked God to an even greater anger. And now I was drowned in 
despair, and all that was left me was a moan of unadulterated pain which, from time to 
time, tore itself from my soul. The soul is in agony - and it seemed to me that I would 
remain in this state, because by my own strength I could not emerge from it. Every 
recollection of God opened up an unspeakable ocean of suffering, and yet despite this 
there is something within the soul which is drawn to Him, through it seems to her for this 
only - that she suffers more. The memory of the love with which God formerly 



53 




surrounded it is still another kind of suffering. His gaze pierces it, and everything within 
the soul is burned by this gaze. 

1 02 After some time, one of the sisters came into the cell and found me almost dead. She 
was frightened and went to find the Directress of Novices who, in the name of holy 
obedience ordered me to get up from the ground. My strength returned immediately, and 
I got up, trembling. The Directress recognized immediately the state of my soul and 
spoke to me about the inscrutable mercy of God, saying, “Do not be distressed about 
anything, Sister. I command this of you in virtue of obedience.” Then she said to me, “I 
see now, Sister, that God is calling you to a high degree of holiness; the Lord wants to 
draw you very close to Himself since He has allowed these things to happen to you so 
soon. Be faithful to God, Sister, because this is a sign that He wants you to have a high 
place in heaven.” However, I did not understand anything of these words. (49) When I 
went into the chapel, I felt as though my soul had been set free from everything, as 
though I had just come forth from the hand of God. I perceived the inviolability of my soul; 
I felt that I was a tiny child. 

103 Suddenly I saw the Lord interiorly, and He said to me, Fear not, My daughter; I am with 
you. In that single moment, all the darkness and torments vanished, my senses were 
inundated with unspeakable joy, [and] the faculties of my soul filled with light. 

1 04 I want to add that, although my soul was already in the rays of His love, traces of my past 
tortures remained on my body for two days: a deathly pale face and bloodshot eyes. 
Jesus alone knows what I suffered. What I have written is very poor compared to the 
reality. I cannot put it in words; it seemed to me that I had come back from the other 
world. I feel an aversion for everything that is created; I snuggle to the heart of God like a 
baby to its mother’s breast. I see everything differently now. I am conscious of what the 
Lord, by one single word, has done in my soul, and I live by it. I shudder at the 
recollection of this past torture. I would not have believed that one could suffer so, if I had 
not gone through it myself. This is a completely spiritual suffering. 

105 However, in all these sufferings and struggles, I was not omitting Holy Communion. 

When it seemed to me that I should not communicate, I went, before Holy Communion, to 
the Directress and told her that I could not approach the Sacrament, because it seemed 
to me that I should not do so. But she would not permit me to omit Holy Communion, so I 
went, and I understand now that it was only obedience that saved me. 

The Directress herself told me later that my trials had passed quickly, “and this solely 
because you were obedient, Sister; and it was through the power of obedience that you 
struggled through this so bravely.” It is true that it was the Lord Himself who brought me 
out of this torment, but my fidelity to obedience did please Him. 

106 Though these are frightening things, the soul should not be too fearful, because God will 
never test us beyond what we are able to bear. On the other hand, He may never send 
us such sufferings, but I write this because, if it pleases the Lord to let a soul pass (50) 
through such sufferings, it should not be afraid but, insofar as this depends on the soul 
itself, it should remain faithful to God. God will do a soul no harm, because He is Love 
itself, and in this unfathomable love has called it into being. However, when I was so 
tormented, I myself did not understand this. 



54 




107 O my God, I have come to know that I am not of this earth ; You, O Lord, have poured this 
profound awareness into my soul. My communion is more with heaven than with earth, 
though I in no way neglect my duties. 

108 During those times, I had no spiritual director; I was without any kind of guidance 
whatever. I begged the Lord, but He did not give me a director. Jesus Himself has been 
my Master from the days of my infancy up to the present moment. He accompanied me 
across all the deserts and through all dangers. I see clearly that God alone could have 
led me through such great perils unharmed, with my soul untarnished and passing 
victoriously through all difficulties, immense though they were. Going out [....] Later on, 
the Lord did give me a director. 

1 09 After such sufferings the soul finds itself in a state of great purity of spirit and very close to 
God. But I should add that during these spiritual torments it is close to God, but it is blind. 
The soul’s vision is plunged into darkness, and though God is nearer than ever to the soul 
which is suffering, the whole secret consists in the fact that it knows nothing of this. The 
soul in fact declares that, not only has God abandoned it, but it is the object of His hatred. 
How grave is the malady of the eyes of the soul which, struck by divine light, claims that 
there is no light, whereas, it is so intense that it blinds her. Yet despite all, I learned later 
that God is closer to a soul at such moments than at others, because it would not be able 
to endure these trials with the help of ordinary grace alone. God’s omnipotence and an 
extraordinary grace must be active here, for otherwise the soul would succumb at the first 
blow. 

1 1 0 O Divine Master, what happens in my soul is Your work alone! You, O Lord, are not 
afraid to place the soul on the edge of a terrible precipice where it stands, alarmed and 
filled with fright, and then You call it back again to Yourself. These are Your 
imponderable mysteries. 

111 (51) When, in the midst of these interior torments, I tried to accuse myself in confession of 
the smallest trifles, the priest was surprised that I had not committed graver faults, and he 
said to me, “If you are as faithful as this to God during these sufferings, this in itself is 
evidence to me that God is sustaining you, Sister, with a special grace, and it is a good 
thing that you do not understand this.” It is a strange thing, nevertheless, that confessors 
could neither understand me nor set my mind at peace concerning these matters, until I 
met Father Andrasz and, later on, Father Sopocko. 

1 1 2 + A few words about confession and confessors. I shall speak only of what I have 
experienced and gone through within my own soul. There are three things which hinder 
the soul from drawing profit from confession in these exceptional moments. 

The first thing: when the confessor has little knowledge of extraordinary ways and shows 
surprise if a soul discloses to him the great mysteries worked in it by God. Such surprise 
frightens a sensitive soul, and it notices that the confessor hesitates to give his opinion; 
and if it does notice this, it will not be set at peace, but will have even more doubts after 
confession than before, because it will sense that the confessor is trying to set it at peace 
while he himself is uncertain. Or else, as has happened to me, a confessor, unable to 
penetrate some of the soul’s mysteries, refuses to hear the confession, showing a certain 
fear when the soul approaches the confessional. 



55 




How can a soul in this state obtain peace in the confessional when it has become so 
oversensitive to every word of the priest? In my opinion, at times of such special trials 
sent by god to a soul, the priest, if he does not understand the soul, should direct it to 
some other experienced and well-instructed confessor. Or else he himself should seek 
light in order to give the soul what it needs, instead of downrightly denying it confession. 
For in this way he is exposing the soul to a great danger; and more than one soul may 
well leave the road along which God wanted it to journey. This is a matter of great 
importance, for I have experienced it myself. I myself began to waver; despite special 
gifts from God, and even though God Himself reassured me, I have nevertheless always 
wanted to have the Church’s seal as well. 

(52) The second thing: the confessor does not allow the soul to express itself frankly, 
and shows impatience. The soul then falls silent and does not say everything [it has to 
say] and, by this, profits nothing. It profits even less when the confessor, without really 
knowing the soul, proceeds to put it to the test. Instead of helping the soul, he does it 
harm. The soul is aware that the confessor does not know it, because he did not allow it 
to lay itself open fully as regards both its graces and its misery. And so the test is ill- 
adapted. I have been submitted to some tests at which I have had to laugh. 

I will express this better thus: The confessor is the doctor of the soul, but how can a 
doctor prescribe a suitable remedy if he does not know the nature of the sickness? Never 
will he be able to do so. For either the remedy will not produce the desired effect, or else 
it will be too strong and will aggravate the illness, and sometimes - God forbid - even 
bring about death. I am speaking from my own experience because, in certain instances, 
it was the Lord himself who directly sustained me. 

The third thing: it also happens sometimes that the confessor makes light of little things. 
There is nothing little in the spiritual life. Sometimes a seemingly insignificant thing will 
disclose a matter of great consequence and will be for the confessor a beam of light 
which helps him to get to know the soul. Many spiritual undertones are concealed in little 
things. 

A magnificent building will never rise if we reject the insignificant bricks. God demands 
great purity of certain souls, and so He gives them a deeper knowledge of their own 
misery. Illuminated by light from on high, the soul can better know what pleases God and 
what does not. Sin depends upon de degree of knowledge and light that exists within the 
soul. The same is true of imperfections. Although the soul knows that it is only sin in the 
strict sense of the term which pertains to the sacrament of penance, yet these petty things 
are of great importance to a soul which is tending to sanctity, and the confessor must not 
treat them lightly. The patience and kindness of the confessor open the way to the 
innermost secrets of the soul. The soul, unconsciously as it were, reveals its abysmal 
depth and feels stronger and more resistant; it fights with greater courage and tries to do 
things better because it knows it must vie an account of them. 

(53) I will mention one more thing regarding the confessor. It is his duty to occasionally 
put to the test, to try, to exercise, to learn whether he is dealing with straw, with iron or 
with pure gold. Each of these three types of souls needs different kinds of training. The 
confessor must - and this is absolutely necessary - form a clear judgment of each soul in 
order to know how heavy a burden it can carry at certain times, in certain circumstances, 
or in particular situations. As for myself, it was only later on, after many [negative] 
experiences, that, when I saw that I was not understood; I no longer laid bare my soul or 



56 




allowed my peace to be disturbed. But this happened only when all these graces had 
already been submitted to the judgment of a wise, well-instructed and experienced 
confessor. Now I know what to go by in certain cases. 

113 And again, I would like to say three words to the soul that is determined to strive for 
sanctity and to derive fruit; that is to say, benefit from confession. 

First [word] - complete sincerity and openness. Even the holiest and wisest confessor 
cannot forcibly pour into the soul what he desires if it is not sincere and open. An 
insincere, secretive soul risks great dangers in the spiritual life, and even the Lord Jesus 
Himself does not give Himself to such a soul on a higher level, because He knows it 
would derive no benefit from these special graces. 

Second word - humility. A soul does not benefit as it should from the sacrament of 
confession if it is not humble. Pride keeps it in darkness. The soul neither knows how, 
nor is it willing, to probe with precision the depths of its own misery. It puts on a mask 
and avoids everything that might bring it recovery. 

Third word - obedience. A disobedient soul will win no victory, even if the Lord Jesus 
himself, in person, were to hear its confession. The most experienced confessor will be 
of no help whatsoever to such a soul. The disobedient soul exposes itself to great 
misfortunes; it will make no progress toward perfection, nor will it succeed in the spiritual 
life. God lavishes His graces most generously upon the soul, but it must be an obedient 
soul. 

114 ( 54 ) + Oh, how pleasing are the hymns flowing from a suffering soul! All heaven delights 
in such a soul, especially when it is tested by God. It mournfully sings out its longing for 
Him. Great is its beauty, because it comes from God. The soul walks through the jungle 
of life, wounded by God’s love. With one foot only it touches the ground. 

115+ When a soul has come out of these tribulations, it is deeply humble. Its purity of soul is 
great. It knows better without need of reflecting, as it were, what it ought to do at a given 
moment and what to forbear. It feels the lightest touch of grace and is very faithful to 
God. It recognizes God from afar and continuously rejoices in Him. It discovers God very 
quickly in other souls and in its environment in general. The soul has been purified by 
God Himself. God, as Pure Spirit, introduces the soul to a life which is purely spiritual. 
God Himself has first prepared and purified the soul; that is, He has made it capable of 
close communion with Himself. The soul, in a state of loving repose, communes 
spiritually with the Lord. It speaks to God without the need of expressing itself through 
the senses. God fills it with his light. 

The enlightened mind sees clearly and distinguishes the various degrees of the spiritual 
life. It recognizes [that state] when its union with God was imperfect: where the senses 
were involved, and the spirit was linked with the senses in a manner - exalted and 
special, to be sure - but not yet perfect. There is a higher and more perfect union with 
God; namely, intellectual union. Here, the soul is safer from illusions; its spirituality is 
purer and more profound. In a life where the senses are involved, there is more danger 
of illusion. Both for the soul and for its confessor, prudence must play a greater part. 
There are moments when God introduces the soul to a purely spiritual state. The senses 
dim and are seemingly dead. The soul is most closely united to God; it is immersed in the 



57 




Deity; its knowledge is complete and perfect, not sporadic as before, but total and 
absolute. It rejoices in this. But I want to say more about those moments of trial; at those 
times the confessor must have patience with such a soul. But the soul must have even 
greater patience with itself. 

1 1 6 (55) My Jesus, You know what my soul goes through at the recollection of these 
sufferings. I have often marveled that the angels and saints hold their peace at the sight 
of a soul suffering like that. Yet they have special love for us at such moments. My soul 
has often cried out after God, as a little child who cries as loudly as he can when his 
mother covers her face and he cannot recognize her. O my Jesus, honor and glory to 
You for these trials of love! Great and incomprehensible is your mercy. All that You 
intended for my soul, O Lord, is steeped in Your mercy. 

117 I will mention here that those who live with such a person should not add external 
sufferings; for indeed, when the soul’s cup is full, the little drop we may add to it may be 
the one drop too much, and the cup of bitterness will overflow. And who will answer for 
such a soul? Let us beware of adding to the suffering of others, because that is 
displeasing to the Lord. If the sisters of the superiors knew or even suspected that a soul 
was suffering such trials, and they nevertheless added still other sufferings, they would be 
sinning gravely, and God Himself would demand an account of them on behalf of such a 
soul. I am not speaking here of instances which of their very nature are sinful, but of 
things which in other circumstances would not be sinful. Let us be on our guard against 
having the weight of such a soul on our conscience. This is a grave and common defect 
in religious life; namely, that when one sees a suffering soul, one always want to add 
even more suffering. I do not say that everyone acts like this, but there are some. We 
take the liberty of passing all sorts of judgments, and we repeat them when we would do 
better to remain silent. 

1 1 8 The tongue is a small member, but it does big things. A religious who does not keep 
silence will never attain holiness; that is, she will never become a saint. Let he not delude 
herself - unless it is the Spirit of God who is speaking through her, for then she must not 
keep silent. But, in order to hear the voice of God, one has to have silence in one’s soul 
and to keep silence; not a gloomy silence, but an interior silence; that is to say, 
recollection in god. One can speak a great deal without breaking silence and, on the 
contrary, one can speak little and be constantly breaking silence. Oh, what irreparable 
damage is done by the breach (56) of silence! We cause a lot of harm to our neighbor, 
but even more to our own selves. 

In my opinion, and according to my experience, the rule concerning silence should stand 
in the very first place. God does not give Himself to a chattering soul which, like a drone 
in a beehive, buzzes around but gathers no honey. A talkative soul is empty inside. It 
lacks both the essential virtues and intimacy with God. A deeper interior life, one of 
gentle peace and of that silence where the Lord dwells, is quite out of the question. A 
soul that has never tasted the sweetness of inner silence is a restless spirit which disturbs 
the silence of others. I have seen many souls in the depths of hell for not having kept 
their silence; they told me so themselves when I asked them what was the cause of their 
undoing. These were souls of religious. My God, what an agony it is to think that not only 
might they have been in heaven, but they might even have become saints! O Jesus, 
have mercy! 



58 




119 1 tremble to think that I have to give an account of my tongue. There is life, but there is 
also death in the tongue. Sometimes we kill with the tongue: we commit real murders. 
And we are still to regard that as a small thing? I truly do not understand such 
consciences. I have known a person who, when she learned from someone that a certain 
thing was being said about her, fell seriously ill. She lost a good deal of blood and she 
many tears, and the outcome was very sad. It was not the sword that did all this, but the 
tongue. O my silent Jesus, have mercy on us! 

1 20 I have wandered onto the subject of silence. But this is not what I wanted to speak about, 
but rather about the soul’s life with God and about its response to grace. When a soul 
has been cleansed, and the Lord is on intimate terms with it, it begins to apply all its inner 
force in striving after God. Yet the soul cannot do anything of itself. God alone arranges 
everything. The soul knows this and is mindful of it. It is still in exile and understands 
well that there may yet come cloudy and rainy days, but it must now look upon things 
differently from what it had up to now. It does not seek reassurance in a false peace, but 
makes ready for battle. It knows it comes from a warrior race. It is now much more 
aware of everything. It knows that it is of royal stock. It is concerned with all that is great 
and holy. 

1 21 (57) + There is a series of graces which God pours into the soul after these trials by fire. 
The soul enjoys intimate union with God. It has many visions, both corporeal and 
intellectual. It hears many supernatural words, and sometimes distinct orders. But 
despite these graces, it is not self-sufficient. In fact, it is even less so as a result of God’s 
graces, because it is now open to many dangers and can easily fall prey to illusions. It 
ought to ask God for a spiritual director; but not only must it pray for one, it must also 
make every effort to find a leader who is an expert in these things, just as a military leader 
must know the ways along which he will lead [his followers] into battle. A soul that is 
united with God must be prepared for great and hard-fought battles. 

+ After these purifications and tears, God abides in the soul in a special way, but the soul 
does not always cooperate with these graces. Not that the soul itself is not willing to 
work, but it encounters so many interior and exterior difficulties that it really takes a 
miracle to sustain the soul on these summits. In this, it absolutely needs a director. 

People have often sown doubt in my soul, and I myself have sometimes become 
frightened at the thought that I was, after all, an ignorant person and did not have 
knowledge of many things, above all, spiritual things. But when my doubts increased, I 
sought light from my confessor or my superiors. Yet I did not obtain what I desired. 

122 When I opened myself up to my superiors, one of them [probably Mother Michael or 
Mother Mary Joseph] understood my soul and the road God intended for me. When I 
followed her advice, I made quick progress towards perfection. But this did not last long. 
When I opened up my soul still more deeply, I did not obtain what I desired; it seemed to 
my superior that these graces [of which I was the object] were unlikely, and so I could not 
draw any further help from her. She told me it was impossible that God should commune 
with His creatures in such a way: “I fear for you, Sister; isn’t this an illusion of some sort! 
(58) You’d better go, Sister, and talk about these matters with your superiors.” And so I 
would go from the superiors to the confessor and from the confessor to the superiors, and 
I found no peace. These divine graces became a great suffering for me. And more than 
once I said to the Lord directly, “Jesus, I am afraid of You; could You not be some kind of 
a ghost?” Jesus always reassured me, but I still continued to be incredulous. It is a 



59 




strange thing however: the more I became incredulous, the more Jesus gave me proofs 
that these things came from Him. 

123 + When I saw that my mind was not being set at rest by my superiors, I decided to say 
nothing [to them] of these purely interior matters. Exteriorly I tried, as a good nun should, 
to tell everything to my superiors, but as for the needs of my soul, I spoke about these 
only in the confessional. For many very good reasons, I learned that a woman is not 
called to discern such mysteries. I laid myself open to much unnecessary suffering. For 
quite a long time I was regarded as one possessed by the evil spirit, and I was looked 
upon with pity, and the superior took certain precautionary actions in my respect. It 
reached my ears that the sisters also regarded me as such. And the sky grew dark 
around me. I began to shun these divine graces, but it was beyond my power to do so. 
Suddenly, I would be enveloped in such recollection that, against my will, I was immersed 
in God, and the Lord kept me completely dependent upon Himself. 

124 In the initial moments, my soul is always a little frightened; but later, it is filled with a 
strange peace and strength. 

125 + All these things could still be endured. But when the Lord demanded that I should paint 
that picture, they began to speak openly about me and to regard me as a hysteric and a 
fantasist, and the rumors began to grow louder. One of the sisters came to talk to me in 
private. She began by pitying me and said, “I’ve heard them say that you are a fantasist, 
Sister, and that you’ve been having visions. My poor Sister, defend yourself in this 
matter.” (59) She was a sincerely soul, and she told me sincerely what she had heard. 
But I had to listen to such things every day. God only knows how tiring it was. 

126 Yet, I resolved to bear everything in silence and to give no explanations when I was 
questioned. Some were irritated by my silence, especially those who were more curious. 
Others, who reflected more deeply, said, “Sister Faustina must be very close to God if 
she has the strength to bear so much suffering.” It was as if I were facing two groups of 
judges. I strove after interior and exterior silence. I said nothing about myself, even 
though I was questioned directly by some sisters. My lips were sealed. I suffered like a 
dove, without complaint. But some sisters seemed to find pleasure in vexing me in 
whatever way they could. My patience irritated them. But God gave me so much inner 
strength that I endured it calmly. 

127+1 learned that I would have help from no one at such moments, and I started to pray and 
beg the Lord for a confessor. My only desire was that some priest would say this one 
word to me, “Be at peace, you are on the right road,” or “Reject all this for it does not 
come from God.” But I could not find such a priest who was sufficiently sure of himself to 
give me a definite opinion in the name of the Lord. And so the uncertainty continued. O 
Jesus, if it is Your will that I live in such uncertainty, may your Name be blessed! I beg 
You, Lord, direct my soul yourself and be with me, for of myself I am nothing. 

128 Thus I have already been judged from all sides. There is no longer anything in me that 
has escaped the sisters’ judgment. But it seems now to have worn itself out, and they 
have begun to leave me in peace. My tormented soul has had some rest, and I have 
learned that the Lord has been closest to me in times of such persecutions. This [truce] 
lasted for only a short time. A violent storm broke out again. And now the old suspicions 
became, for them, as if true facts, and once again I had to listen to the same old songs. 



60 




The Lord would have it that way. But then, strangely enough, even exteriorly I began to 
experience (60) various failures. This brought down on me many sufferings of all sorts, 
known to God alone. 

But I tried as best I could to do everything with the purest of intentions. I could now see 
that everywhere I was being watched like a thief: in the chapel; while I was carrying out 
my duties; in my cell. 40 I was now aware that, besides the presence of God, I had always 
close to me a human presence as well. And I must say that, more than once, this human 
presence bothered me greatly. There were times when I wondered whether I should 
undress to wash myself or not. Indeed, even that poor bed of mine was checked many 
times. 41 More than once I was seized with laughter when I learned they would not even 
leave my bed alone. One of the sisters herself told me that she came to observe me in 
my cell every evening to see how I behave in it. 

Still, superiors are always superiors. And although they humiliated me personally and, on 
occasions, filled me with all kinds of doubts, they always allowed me to do what the Lord 
demanded. Though not in the way I asked, but in some other way, they fulfilled the Lord’s 
demands and gave me permission for all the rigors and mortifications [He asked of me]. 

One day, one of the Mothers [probably Mother Jane] poured out so much of her anger on me 
and humiliated me so much that I thought I would not be able to endure it. She said to 
me, “You queer, hysterical visionary, get out of this room; go on with you, Sister!” She 
continued to pour out upon my head everything she could think of. When I got to my cell, 

I fell on my face before the cross, and then looked at Jesus; but I could no longer say a 
single word. Yet I concealed everything from the others and pretended that nothing had 
happened between us. 

129 Satan always takes advantage of such moments; thoughts of discouragement began to 
rise to the surface - for your faithfulness and sincerity - this is your reward. How can one 
be sincere when one is so misunderstood? Jesus, Jesus, I cannot go on any longer. 
Again I fell to the ground under this weight, and broke out in a sweat, and fear began to 
overcome me. I had no one to lean on interiorly. Suddenly I heard a voice within my 
soul, Do not fear; I am with you. And an unusual light illumined my mind, and I 
understood that I should not give in to such sorrows. I was filled with a certain strength 
and left my cell with new courage to suffer. 

130 (61) Nevertheless, I began to grow a bit negligent. I did not pay attention to these interior 
inspirations and tried to distract myself. But despite the noise and the distraction, I could 
see what was going on in my soul. The word of god is clear, and nothing can stifle it. I 
began to avoid encounters with the Lord in my soul because I did not want to fall prey to 
illusions. However, in a sense, the Lord kept pursuing me with His gifts; and truly I 
experienced, alternately, torture and joy. I make no mention here of the various visions 
and graces God granted me during this time, because I’ve written this down elsewhere. 42 

1 31 But I will simply mention here that these various sufferings had come to a peak, and I 
resolved to put an end to these doubts of mine before my perpetual vows. Throughout 
my probation, I prayed for light for the priest to whom I was to open up my soul to its 
depths. I asked God that He Himself would help me and grant me the grace to be able to 
express even the most secret things that exist between me and Him and to be so 
disposed that, whatever the priest would decide, I would accept as coming from Jesus 



61 




Himself. No matter what judgment he would pass on me, all I wanted was the truth and a 
decisive answer to certain questions. I put myself completely in god’s hands, and [all] my 
soul desired was the truth. I could not go on living in doubt any longer although, in the 
depths of my soul, I was so very sure that these things came from God, that I would lay 
down my life for this. However, I placed the confessor’s opinion above all, and I made up 
my mind to do as he thought best and to act according to the advice that he would give 
me. I looked forward to that moment which would decide the course of my actions for the 
rest of my life. I knew that everything would depend on this. It mattered little whether 
what he would say to me would be in accord with my inspirations or quite the contrary; 
this no longer mattered to me. I wanted to know the truth and follow it. 

Jesus, You can help me! From this moment, I have begun anew. I conceal all the graces 
within my soul and await whosoever the Lord will send me. With no doubt in my heart, I 
asked the Lord himself to deign to help me during these moments, and a courage of sorts 
entered my soul. 

1 32 ( 62 ) I must again mention that there are some confessors who seem to be true spiritual 
fathers, but only as long as things go well. When the soul finds itself in greater need, they 
become perplexed, and either cannot or will not understand the soul. They try to get rid 
of the person as soon as possible. But if the soul is humble, it will always profit in some 
little way or other. God Himself will sometimes cast a shaft of light into the depths of the 
soul, because of its humility and faith. The confessor will sometimes say something he 
had never intended to say, without even realizing it himself. Oh, let the soul believe that 
such words are the words of the Lord Himself! Though indeed we ought to believe that 
every word spoken in the confessional is God’s, what I have referred to above is 
something that comes directly from God. And the soul perceives that the priest is not 
master of himself, that he is saying things that he would rather not say. This is how God 
rewards faith. 

I have experienced this many times myself. A certain very learned and respected priest 
[probably Father Wilkowski, the sisters’ confessor at Plock], to whom I sometimes 
happened to go to confession, was always severe and opposed to these matters [which I 
brought up to him]. But on one occasion he replied to me, “Bear in mind, Sister, that if 
God is asking this of you, you should not oppose Him. God sometimes wants to be 
praised in just this way. Be at peace; what God has started, He will finish. But I say this 
to you: faithfulness to God and humility. And once again: humility. Bear well in mind 
what I have told you today.” I was delighted, and I thought that perhaps this priest had 
understood me. But it so turned out that I never went to confession to him again. 

1 33 + Once, one of the older Mothers [probably Mother Jane 43 ] summoned me, and it was as 
if fiery bolts from the blue were coming down upon me head, so much so that I could not 
even discover what it was all about. But after a while I understood that it was about a 
matter over which I had no control whatsoever. She said to me, “Get it out of your head, 
Sister, that the Lord Jesus might be communing in such an intimate way with such a 
miserable bundle of imperfections as you! Bear in mind that it is only with holy souls that 
the Lord Jesus communes in this way!” I acknowledged that she was right, because I am 
indeed a wretched person, but still I trust in God’s mercy. When I met the Lord I humbled 
myself and said, “Jesus, it seems that You do not associate intimately with such wretched 
people as I.” Be at peace, My daughter, it is precisely through such misery that I 



62 




want to show the power of My mercy. I understood that this Mother had merely wanted 
to subject me to a [salutary] humiliation. 

134 (63) + O my Jesus, You have tested me so many times in this short life of mine! I have 
come to understand so many things, and even such that now amaze me. Oh, how good it 
is to abandon oneself totally to God and to give Him full freedom to act in one’s soul! 

135 During the third probation, the Lord gave me to understand that I should offer myself to 
him so that He could do with me as He pleased. I was to remain standing before Him as 
a victim offering. At first, I was quite frightened, as I felt myself to be so utterly miserable 
and knew very well that this was the case. I answered the Lord once again, “I am misery 
itself; how can I be a hostage [for others]?” You do not understand this today. 
Tomorrow, during your adoration, I will make it known to you. My heart trembled, as 
did my soul, so deeply did these words sink into my soul. The word of God is living. 

When I came to the adoration, I felt within my soul that I had entered the Temple of the 
living God, whose majesty is great and incomprehensible. And he made known to me 
what even the purest spirits are in His sight. Although I saw nothing externally, God’s 
presence pervaded me. At that very moment, my intellect was strangely illumined. A 
vision passed before the eyes of my soul; it was like the vision Jesus had in the Garden of 
Olives. First, the physical sufferings and all the circumstances that would increase them; 
[then] the full scope of the spiritual sufferings and those that no one would know about. 
Everything entered into the vision: false suspicions, loss of good name. I’ve summarized 
it here, but this knowledge was already so clear that what I went through later on was in 
no way different from what I had known at that moment. My name is to be: “sacrifice.” 

When the vision ended, a cold sw3eat bathed my forehead. Jesus made it known to me 
that, even if I did not give my consent to this, I could still be saved; and He would not 
lessen His graces, but would still continue to have the same intimate relationship with me, 
so that even if I did not consent to make this sacrifice, God’s generosity would not lessen 
thereby. 

1 36 And the Lord gave me to know that the whole mystery depended on me, on my free 
consent to the sacrifice given with full use of my faculties. In this free and conscious act 
lies the whole power and value before His Majesty. Even if none of these things for which 
I offered myself would ever happen to me, before the Lord everything was as though it 
had already been (64) consummated. 

At that moment, I realized I was entering into communion with the incomprehensible 
Majesty. I felt that God was waiting for my word, for my consent. Then my spirit 
immersed itself in the Lord, and I said, “Do with me as You please. I subject myself to 
Your will. As of today, Your holy will shall be my nourishment, and I will be faithful to Your 
commands with the help of Your grace. Do with me as You please. I beg You, O Lord, 
be with me at every moment of my life.” 

137 Suddenly, when I had consented to the sacrifice with all my heart and all my will, God’s 
presence pervaded me. My soul became immersed in God and was inundated with such 
happiness that I cannot put in writing even the smallest part of it. I felt that His Majesty 
was enveloping me. I was extraordinarily fused with God. I saw that God was well 
pleased with me and, reciprocally, my spirit drowned itself in Him. Aware of this union 



63 




with God, I felt I was especially loved and, in turn, I loved with all my soul. A great 
mystery took place during that adoration, a mystery between the Lord and myself. It 
seemed to me that I would die of love [at the sight of] His glance. I spoke much with the 
Lord, without uttering a single word. And the Lord said to me, You are the delight of My 
Heart; from today on, every one of your acts, even the very smallest, will be a 
delight to My eyes, whatever you do. At that moment I felt transconsecrated. My 
earthly body was the same, but my soul was different; God was now living in it with the 
totality of His delight. This is not a feeling, but a conscious reality that nothing can 
obscure. 

138 A great mystery has been accomplished between God and me. Courage and strength 
have remained in my soul. When the time of adoration came to an end, I came out and 
calmly faced everything I had feared so much before. When I came out into the corridor, 
a great suffering and humiliation, at the hands of a certain person, was awaiting me. I 
accepted it with submission to a higher will and snuggled closely to the Most Sacred 
Heart of Jesus, letting Him know that I was ready for that for which I had offered myself. 

Suffering seemed to spring out of the ground. Even Mother Margaret herself was 
surprised. For others, many things passed unnoticed, for indeed it wasn’t worth paying 
any attention to them; but in my case, nothing passed unnoticed; each word was 
analyzed, each step watched. One sister said to me, “Get ready, (65) Sister, to receive a 
small cross, at the hands of Mother Superior. I feel sorry for you.” But as for me, I 
rejoiced at this in the depths of my soul and had been ready for it for a long time. When 
she saw my courage, she was surprised. I see now that a soul cannot do much of itself, 
but with God it can do all things. Behold what God’s grace can do. Few are the souls 
that are always watchful for divine graces, and even fewer of such souls who follow those 
inspirations faithfully. 

1 39 Still, a soul which is faithful to God cannot confirm its own inspirations; it must submit 
them to the control of a very wise and learned priest; and until it is quite certain, it should 
remain distrustful. It should not, on its own initiative alone, put its trust in these 
inspirations and all other higher graces, because it can thus expose itself to great losses. 

Even though a soul may immediately distinguish between false inspirations and those of 
God, it should nevertheless be careful, because many things are uncertain. God is 
pleased and rejoices when a soul distrusts Him for His own sake; because it loves Him, it 
is prudent and itself asks and searches for help to make certain that it is really God who is 
acting within it. And once a well-instructed confessor has confirmed this, the soul should 
be at peace and give itself up to God, according to His directions; that is, according to the 
directions of the confessor. 

1 40 Pure love is capable of great deeds, and it is not broken by difficulty or adversity. As it 
remains strong in the midst of great difficulties, so too it perseveres in the toilsome and 
drab life of each day. It knows that only one thing is needed to please God: to do even 
the smallest things out of great love - love, and always love. 

Pure love never errs. Its light is strangely plentiful. It will not do anything that might 
displease God. It is ingenious at doing what is more pleasing to God, and no one will 
equal it. It is happy when it can empty itself and burn like a pure offering. The more it 



64 




gives of itself, the happier it is. But also, no one can sense dangers from afar as can 
love; it knows how to unmask and also knows with whom it has to deal. 

141 (66) + But my torments are coming to an end. The Lord is giving me the promised help. I 
can see it in two priests; namely, Father Andrasz and Father Sopocko. During the retreat 
before my perpetual voews, 44 1 was set completely at peace for the first time [by Father 
Andrasz 45 ], and afterwards I was led in the same direction by Father Sopocko. This was 
the fulfillment of the Lord’s promise. 

1 42 When I was set at peace and taught how to follow God’s paths, my spirit rejoiced in the 
lord, and it seemed to me that I was running, not walking. My wings were spread for 
flight; I soared into the very heat of the sun, and I will not descend until I rest in Him, in 
whom my soul has lost itself forever. And I subjected myself totally to the action of grace. 
God stoops very low to my soul. I do not draw back, nor do I resist Him, but I lose myself 
in Him as my only treasure. I am one with the Lord. It is as if the gulf between us, 

Creator and creature, disappears. For a few days, my soul was in a state of continuous 
ecstasy. God’s presence did not leave me for a single moment. And my soul remained in 
a continuous loving union with the Lord. But this in no way interfered with the 
performance of my duties. I felt I was transformed into love; I was all afire, but without 
being burned up, I lost myself in God unceasingly; God drew me to Himself so strongly 
and powerfully that sometimes I was not aware of being on earth. I had impeded and 
feared God’s grace for so long, and now God Himself, through Father Andrasz, has 
removed all difficulties. My spirit has been turned towards the Sun and has blossomed in 

His rays for Him alone; I understand no more [The sentence breaks off here and 

begins a completely new thought in the next line.] 

143 +1 have wasted many of God’s graces because I was always afraid of being deluded. 
God drew me to Himself so powerfully that often it was not in my power to resist His grace 
when I was suddenly immersed in Him. At these moments, Jesus filled me with such 
great peace that, later on, even when I tried to become uneasy, I could not do so. And 
the, I heard these words in my soul: In order that you may be assured that it is I who 
am demanding all these things of you, I will give you such profound peace (67) that 
even if you wanted to feel troubled and frightened, it would not be in your power to 
do so today, but love will flood your soul to the point of self-oblivion. 

1 44 Later Jesus gave me another priest [Father Sopocko], before whom He ordered me to 
reveal my soul. At first I did so with a bit of hesitation, but a severe reprimand from Jesus 
brought about a deep humility within my soul. Linder his direction, my soul made quick 
progress in the love of God, and many wishes of the Lord were carried out externally. 46 
Many a time have I been astounded at his courage and his profound humility. 

1 45 Oh, how wretched my soul is for having wasted so many graces! I was running away 
from God, and he pursued me with His graces. I most often experienced God’s graces 
when I least expected them. From the moment He gave me a spiritual director, I have 
been more faithful to grace. Thanks to the director and his watchfulness over my soul, I 
have learned what guidance means and how Jesus looks at it. Jesus warned me of the 
least fault and stressed that He Himself judges the matter that I present to my confessor; 
and [He told me] that.... any transgressions against the confessor touch Me Myself. 



65 




When, under his direction, my soul began to experience deep recollection and peace, I 
often heard these words in my soul: Strengthen yourself for combat - repeated over 
and over at various times. 

+ Jesus often makes known to me what He does not like in my soul, and He has more 
than once rebuked me for what seemed to be trifles, but which were, in fact, things of 
great importance. He has warned me and tried me like a Master. For many years, He 
Himself educated me, until the moment when He gave me a spiritual director. Previously, 
He Himself had made clear to me what I did not understand; but now, He tells me to ask 
my confessor about everything and often says, I will answer you through his mouth. 

Be at peace. (68) It has never happened to me that I have received an answer which 
was contrary to what the Lord wanted of me, when I presented it to the spiritual director 
[Father Sopocko]. It sometimes happens that Jesus first asks certain things of me, about 
which no one knows anything, and then, when I kneel at the confessional, my confessor 
gives me the same order - however, this is infrequent. 

+ When, over a long period of time, a soul has received much light and many inspirations, 
and when the confessors have confirmed the source of these inspirations and set the soul 
at peace; if its love is great, Jesus now makes it known that it is time to put into action 
what it has received. The soul recognizes that God is counting on it, and this knowledge 
fortifies it. It knows that to be faithful it will often have to face various difficulties, but it 
trusts in God and, thanks to this trust, it reaches that point to which God is calling it. 
Difficulties do not terrify it; they are its daily bread, as it were. They do not frighten or 
terrify the soul, just as a warrior who is constantly in battle is not terrified by the roar of the 
cannon. Far from being frightened, it listens to determine from which side the enemy is 
launching his attack, in order to defeat him. It does nothing blindly, but examines and 
ponders everything deeply and, not counting on itself, it prays fervently and asks advice 
of other warriors who are experienced and wise. When the soul acts in this way, it nearly 
always wins. 

These are attacks when a soul has no time to think or seek advice; then it must enter into 
a life-or-death struggle. Sometimes it is good to flee for cover in the wound of the Heart 
of Jesus, without answering a single word. By this very act the enemy is already 
defeated. 

In time of peace, as well, the soul continues making efforts, just as in time of battle. It 
must exercise itself, and do so with energy; otherwise it has no chance of attaining 
victory. I regard the time of peace as a time of preparation for victory. The soul must be 
ever watchful; watchfulness and again, watchfulness. The soul that reflects receives 
much light. A distracted soul runs the risk of a fall, and let it not be surprised when it does 
fall. O Spirit of God, Director of the soul, wise is he whom You have trained! But for the 
Spirit of God to act in the soul, peace and recollection are needed. 

1 46 ( 69 ) Prayer. - A soul arms itself by prayer for all kinds of combat. In whatever state the 

soul may be, it ought to pray. A soul which is pure and beautiful must pray, or else it will 
lose its beauty; a soul which is striving after this purity must pray, or else it will never 
attain it; a soul which is newly converted must pray, or else it will fall again; a sinful soul, 
plunged in sins, must pray so that it might rise again. There is no soul which is not bound 
to pray, for every single grace comes to the soul through prayer. 



66 




147 I recall that I have received most light during adoration which I made lying prostrate 
before the Blessed Sacrament for half an hour every day throughout Lent. During that 
time I came to know myself and god more profoundly. And yet, even though I had the 
superiors’ permission to do so, I encountered many obstacles to praying in such a way. 

Let the soul be aware that, in order to pray and persevere in prayer, one must arm 
oneself with patience and cope bravely with exterior and interior difficulties. The interior 
difficulties are discouragement, dryness, heaviness of spirit and temptations. The exterior 
difficulties are human respect and time; one must observe the time set apart for prayer. 
This has been my personal experience because, when I did not pray at the time assigned 
for prayer, later on I could not do it because of my duties; or if I did manage to do so, this 
was only with great difficulty, because my thoughts kept wandering off to my duties. I 
also experienced this difficulty: when a soul has prayed well and left prayer in a state of 
profound interior recollection, others resist its recollection; and so, the soul must be 
patient to persevere in prayer. It often happened to me that when my soul was more 
deeply immersed in God, and I had derived greater fruit from prayer, and God’s presence 
accompanied me during the day, and at work there was more recollection and greater 
precision and effort at my duty, this was precisely when I received the most rebukes for 
being negligent in my duty and indifferent to everything; because less recollected souls 
want others to be like them, for they are a constant [source of] remorse to them. 

1 48 ( 70 ) + A noble and delicate soul, even the most simple, but one of delicate sensibilities, 
sees God in everything, finds Him everywhere, and knows how to find Him in even the 
most hidden things. It finds all things important, it highly appreciates all things, it thanks 
God for all things, it draws profit for the soul from all things, and it gives all glory to God. 

It places its trust in God and is not confused when the time of ordeals comes. It knows 
that God is always the best of Fathers and makes little of human opinion. It follows 
faithfully the faintest breath of the Holy Spirit; it rejoices in this Spiritual Guest and Holds 
onto Him like a child to its mother. Where other souls come to a standstill and fear, this 
soul passes on without fear or difficulty. 

1 49 When the Lord himself wants to be close to a soul and to lead it, He will remove 
everything that is external. When I fell ill and was taken to the infirmary, I suffered much 
unpleasantness because of this. There were two of us sick in the infirmary. Sisters 
would come to see Sister N., but no one came to visit me. It is true that there was only 
one infirmary, but each one had her own cell. The winter nights were long, and Sister N. 
had the light and the radio headphones, while I could not even prepare my meditation for 
lack of a light. 

When nearly two weeks had passed in this way, I complained to the Lord one evening 
that I was suffering so much and that I could not even prepare my meditation because 
there was no light. And the Lord said that He would come every evening and give me the 
points for the next day’s meditation. These points always concerned His sorrowful 
Passion. He would say, Consider My sufferings before Pilate. And thus, point by 
point, I meditated upon His sorrowful Passion for one week. From that moment, a great 
joy entered my soul, and I no longer wanted either the visitors or the light; Jesus sufficed 
me for everything. The superiors were indeed very solicitous for the sick, but the Lord 
ordained that I should feel forsaken. This best of masters withdraws every created thing 
in order that He Himself might act. Many a time, I have experienced such sufferings and 
persecutions that Mother M. [probably Mother Margaret] herself said to me, “Sister, along 



67 




your path, sufferings just spring up out of the ground, I look upon you, (71) Sister, as one 
crucified. But I can see that Jesus has a hand in this. Be faithful to the Lord.” 

150 +1 want to write down a dream that I had about Saint Therese of the Child Jesus. I was 
still a novice at the time and was going through some difficulties which I did not know how 
to overcome. They were interior difficulties connected with exterior ones. I made 
novenas to various saints, but the situation grew more and more difficult. The sufferings it 
caused me were so great that I did not know how to go on living, but suddenly the thought 
occurred to me that I should pray to Saint Therese of the Child Jesus. I started a novena 
to this Saint, because before entering the convent I had had a great devotion to her. 

Lately, I had somewhat neglected this devotion, but in my need I began again to pray with 
great fervor. 

On the fifth day of the novena, I dreamed of Saint Therese, but it was as if she were still 
living on earth. She hid from me the fact that she was a saint and began to comfort me, 
saying that I should not be worried about this matter, but should trust more in God. She 
said, “I suffered greatly, too, but I did not quite believe her and said, “It seems to me that 
you have not suffered at all.” But Saint Therese answered me in a convincing manner 
that she had suffered very much indeed and said to me, “Sister, know that in three days 
the difficulty will come to a happy conclusion.” When I was not very willing to believe her, 
she revealed to me that she was a saint. At that moment, a great joy filled my soul, and I 
said to her, “You are a saint?” “Yes,” she answered, “I am a saint. Trust that this matter 
will be resolved in three days.” And I said, “Dear sweet Therese, tell me, shall I go to 
heaven?” And she answered, “Yes, you will go to heaven, Sister.” “And will I be a saint?” 
“But, little Therese, shall I be a saint as you are, raised to the altar?” And she answered, 
“Yes, you will be a saint just as I am, but you must trust in the Lord Jesus.” I then asked 
her if my mother and father would go to heaven, will [unfinished sentence] (72) And she 
replied that they would. I further asked, “And will my brothers and sisters go to haven?” 
She told me to pray hard for them, but gave me no definite answer. I understood that 
they were in need of much prayer. 

This was a dream. And as the proverb goes, dreams are phantoms; God is faith. 
Nevertheless, three days later the difficulty was solved very easily, just as she had said. 
And everything in this affair turned out exactly as she said it would. It was a dream, but it 
had its significance. 

1 51 + Once, when I was in the kitchen with Sister N., 47 she got a little upset with me and, as a 
punishment, ordered me to sit on the table while she herself continued to work hard, 
cleaning and scrubbing. And while I was sitting there, the sisters came along and were 
astounded to find me sitting on the table, and each one had her say. One said that I was 
a loafer and another, “What an eccentric!” I was a postulant at the time. Others said, 
“What kind of a sister will she make?” Still, I could not get down because sister had 
ordered me to sit there by virtue of obedience 48 until she told me to get down. Truly, God 
alone knows how many acts of self-denial it took. I thought I’d die of shame. God often 
allowed such things for the sake of my inner formation, but He compensated me for this 
humiliation by a great consolation. During Benediction I saw Him in great beauty. Jesus 
looked at me kindly and said, My daughter, do not be afraid of sufferings; I am with 
you. 



68 




152 



Once, I had night duty, 49 and I was suffering greatly in spirit because of the painting of the 
image, and I no longer knew which way to turn because they were constantly trying to 
convince me that the whole thing was an illusion. On the other hand, one priest said that 
perhaps god wanted to be worshiped through this image and therefore I ought to try to get 
it painted. Meanwhile, my soul was becoming extremely exhausted. When I entered the 
little chapel, I brought my head close to the tabernacle, knocked (73) and said, “Jesus, 
look at the great difficulties I am having because of the painting of this image.” And I 
heard a voice from the tabernacle, My daughter, your sufferings will not last much 
longer. 

1 53 One day, I saw two roads. One was broad, covered with sand and flow3ers, full of joy, 
music and all sorts of pleasures. People walked along it, dancing and enjoying 
themselves. They reached the end without realizing it. And at the end of the road there 
was a horrible precipice; that is, the abyss of hell. The souls fell blindly into it; as they 
walked, so they fell. And their number was so great that it was impossible to count them. 
And I saw the other road, or rather, a path, for it was narrow and strewn with thorns and 
rocks; and the people who walked along it had tears in their eyes, and all kinds of 
suffering befell them. Some fell down upon the rocks, but stood up immediately and went 
on. At the end of the road there was a magnificent garden filled with all sorts of 
happiness, and all these souls entered there. At the very first instant they forgot all their 
sufferings. 

1 54 Once, when there was adoration at the convent of the Sisters of the Holy Family, 50 1 went 
there in the evening with one of our sisters. As soon as I entered the chapel, the 
presence of God filled my soul. I prayed as I do at certain times, without saying a word. 
Suddenly, I saw the Lord who said to me, Know that if you neglect the matter of the 
painting of the image and the whole work of mercy, you will have to answer for a 
multitude of souls on the day of judgment. After these worlds of Our Lord, a certain 
fear filled my soul, and alarm took hold of me. Try as I would, I could not calm myself. 
These words kept resounding in my ears: So, I will not only have to answer for myself on 
the day of judgment, but also for the souls of others. These words cut deep into my heart. 
When I returned home, I went to the little Jesus, 51 fell on my face before the Blessed 
Sacrament and said to the Lord, “I will do everything in my power, but I beg You to be 
always with me and to vive me strength to do Your holy will; for You can do everything, 
while I can do nothing of myself.” 

1 55 (74) + It has happened to me for some time now that I immediately sense in my soul 
when someone is praying for me; and I likewise sense it in my soul when some soul asks 
me for prayer, even though they do not speak to me about it. The feeling is one of certain 
disquiet, as if someone were calling me; and when I pray I obtain peace. 

156 + Once, I desired very much to receive Holy Communion, but I had a certain doubt, and I 
did not go. I suffered greatly because of this. It seemed to me that my heart would burst 
from the pain. When I set about my work, my heart full of bitterness, Jesus suddenly 
stood by me and said, My daughter, do not omit Holy Communion unless you know 
well that your fall was serious; apart from this, no doubt must stop you from 
uniting yourself with Me in the mystery of My love. Your minor faults will disappear 
in My love like a piece of straw thrown into a great furnace. Know that you grieve 
Me much when you fail to receive Me in Holy Communion. 



69 




157 In the evening, when I entered the small chapel, I heard these words in my soul: My 
daughter, consider these words: “And being in agony, he prayed more earnestly.” 
When I started to think about them more deeply, much light streamed into my soul. I 
learned how much we need perseverance in prayer and that our salvation often depends 
on such difficult prayer. 

1 58 + When I was at Kiekrz [1 930] to replace one of the sisters 52 for a short time, I went 
across the garden one afternoon and stopped on the shore of the lake; I stood there for a 
long time, contemplating my surroundings. Suddenly, I saw the Lord Jesus near me, and 
He graciously said to me, All this I created for you, My spouse; and know that all this 
beauty is nothing compared to what I have prepared for you in eternity. My soul 
was inundated with such consolation that I stayed there until evening, and it seemed to 
me like a brief moment. That was my free day, set apart for a one-day retreat, 53 (75) so I 
was quite free to devote myself to prayer. Oh, how the infinitely good God pursues us 
with His goodness! It often happens that the Lord grants me the greatest graces when I 
do not at all expect them. 

159 +0 Blessed Host, in golden chalice enclosed for me, 

That through the vast wilderness of exile 
I may pass - pure, immaculate, undefiled; 

Oh, grant that through the power of Your love 
This might come to be. 

O Blessed Host, take up Your dwelling within my soul, 

O Thou my heart’s purest love! 

With Your brilliance the darkness dispel. 

Refuse not Your grace to a humble heart. 

O Blessed Host, enchantment of all heaven, 

Though Your beauty be veiled 
And captured in a crumb of bread, 

Strong faith tears away that veil. 

1 60 + The crusade day, 54 which is the fifth of the month, happened to fall on the First Friday of 
the month. This was my day for keeping watch before the Lord Jesus. It was my duty to 
make amends to the Lord for all offenses and acts of disrespect and to pray that, on this 
day, no sacrilege be committed. This day, my spirit was set aflame with special love for 
the Eucharist. It seemed to me that I was transformed into a blazing fire. When I was 
about to receive Holy Communion, a second Host fell onto the priest’s sleeve, and I did 
not know which host I was to receive. After I had hesitated for a moment, the priest made 
an impatient gesture with his hand to tell me I should receive the host. When I took the 
Host he gave me, the other one fell onto my hands. The priest went along the altar rail to 
distribute Communion, and I held the Lord Jesus in my hands all that time. When the 
priest approached me again, I raised the Host for him to put it back into the chalice, 
because when I had first received Jesus I could not speak before consuming the Host, 
and so could not tell him that the other had fallen. But while I was holding the Host (76) in 
my hand, I felt such a power of love that for the rest of the day I could neither eat nor 
come to my senses. I heard these words from the Host: I desired to rest in your 
hands, not only in your heart. And at that moment I saw the little Jesus. But when the 
priest approached, I saw once again only the Host. 



70 




161 O Mary, Immaculate Virgin, 

Pure crystal for my heart, 

You are my strength, O secure anchor, 

You are a shield and protection for a weak heart. 

O Mary, you are pure and unparalleled, 

Virgin and Mother at one and the same time; 

You’re beautiful as the sun, by nothing defiled. 

Nothing is worthy of comparison to the image of Your soul. 

Your beauty enthralled the Thrice-Holy One’s eye, 

That He came down from heaven, forsaking th’eternal See’s throne, 

And assumed from Your Heart body and Blood, 

Hiding for nine months in the Virgin’s Heart. 

O Mother, Virgin, this will no one omprehend, 

That the infinite God is becoming a man; 

It’s only love’s and His inscrutable mercy’s purpose. 

Through You, Mother - it’s given us to live with Him for ever. 

O Mary, Virgin Mother and Heaven’s Gate, 

Through You salvation came to us; 

Every grace to us streams forth through Your hands, 

And faithful imitation of You only will sanctify me. 

O Mother, Virgin - most beautiful Lily. 

Your Heart was for Jesus the first tabernacle on earth, 

And that, because Your humility was the deepest, 

Wherefore You were raised above Angel choirs and Saints. 

O Mary, my sweet Mother, 

To You I turn over my soul, my body and my poor heart. 

Be the safeguard of my life, 

Especially at death’s hour, in the final fight. 

162 ( 77 ) J.M.J. Jesus, I trust in You. January 1 , 1937 

Chart of internal control of the soul. Particular examen - to be united with the merciful 
Christ. Practice: inner silence, strict observance of silence. 

The Conscience 

January: God and the soul; silence. Victories 41 , falls 4. 

Exclamatory Prayer: But Jesus remained silent. 

February: God and the soul; silence. Victories 36, falls 3. 

Exclamatory Prayer: Jesus, I trust in You. 

March: God and the soul; silence. Victories 51 , falls 2. 

Exclamatory Prayer: Jesus, enkindle my heart with love. 

April: God and the soul; silence. Victories 61 , falls 4. 

Exclamatory Prayer: With God, I can do all things. 



71 




163 



May: 


God and the 


June: 


Exclamatory 
God and the 


July: 


Exclamatory 
God and the 


August: 


Exclamatory 
God and the 


September: 


Exclamatory 
God and the 


October: 


Exclamatory 
God and the 


November: 


Exclamatory 
God and the 


December: 


Exclamatory 
God and the 


(78) JMJ 


Exclamatory 



soul; silence. Victories 92, falls 3. 
Prayer: In His Name is my strength, 
soul; silence. Victories 64, falls 1 . 
Prayer: All for Jesus, 
soul; silence. Victories 62, falls 8. 
Prayer: Jesus, rest in my heart, 
soul; silence. Victories 88, falls 7. 
Prayer: Jesus, You know.... 
soul; silence. Victories 99, falls 1 . 
Prayer: Jesus, hide me in Your Heart, 
soul; silence. Victories 41 , falls 3. 
Prayer: Mary, unite me with Jesus, 
soul; silence. Victories, falls. 

Prayer: O’ my Jesus, have mercy! 
soul; silence. Victories, falls. 

Prayer. Hail, living Host! 



The Year 1937 



General Exercises 

+ O Most Holy Trinity! As many times as I breathe, as many times as my heart beats, as 
many times as my blood pulsates through my body, so many thousand times do I want to 
glorify Your mercy. 

+1 want to be completely transformed into Your mercy and to be Your living reflection, O 
Lord. May the greatest of all divine attributes, that of Your unfathomable mercy, pass 
through my heart and soul to my neighbor. 

Help me, O Lord, that my eyes may be merciful, so that I may never suspect or judge 
from appearances, but look for what is beautiful in my neighbors’ souls and come to their 
rescue. 

Help me, that my ears may be merciful, so that I may give heed to my neighbors’ needs 
and not be indifferent to their pains and moanings. 

Help me, O Lord, that my tongue may be merciful, so that I should never speak negatively 
of my neighbor, but have a word of comfort and forgiveness for all. 

Help me, O Lord, that my hands may be merciful and filled with good deeds, so that I may 
do only good to my neighbors and take upon myself the more difficult and toilsome tasks. 

Help me, that my feet may be merciful, so that I may hurry to assist my neighbor, 
overcoming my own fatigue and weariness. My true rest is in the service of my neighbor. 

Help me, O Lord, that my hart may be merciful so that I myself may feel all the sufferings 
of my neighbor. I will refuse my heart to no one. I will be sincere even with those who, I 
know, will abuse my kindness. And I will lock myself up in the most merciful Heart of 
Jesus. I will bear my own suffering in silence. May Your mercy, O Lord, rest upon me. 



72 




+ You Yourself command me to exercise the three degrees of mercy. The first: the act of 
mercy, of whatever kind. The second: the word of mercy - if I cannot carry out a work of 
mercy, I will assist by my words. The third: prayer - if I cannot show mercy by deeds or 
words, I can always do so by prayer. My prayer reaches out even there where I cannot 
reach out physically. 

O my Jesus, transform me into Yourself, for you can do all things. 



[four pages left blank] 55 



1 64 (83) + JMJ Warsaw 1 933 

Probation Before Perpetual Vows 56 

When I learned I was to go for probation, my heart beat with joy at the thought of such an 
immense grace, that of the perpetual vows. I went before the Blessed Sacrament; and 
when I immersed myself in a prayer of thanksgiving, I heard these words in my soul: My 

child you are My delight, you are the comfort of My Heart. I grant you as many 
graces as you can hold. As often as you want to make Me happy, speak to the 
world about My great and unfathomable mercy. 

1 65 A few weeks before I was told about the probation, I entered the chapel for a moment and 
Jesus said to me At this very moment the superiors are deciding which sisters are 
going to take the perpetual vows. Not all of them will be granted this grace, but 
this is their own fault. He who does not take advantage of small graces will not 
receive great ones. But to you, my child, this grace is being given. My soul was 
seized with joyful surprise, because a few days earlier one of the sisters had said to me, 
“Sister, you will not be going for the third probation. I myself will see to it that you will not 
be permitted to make your vows.” I said nothing to the sister, but felt great pain which I 
tried to conceal as best I could. 

O Jesus, how strange are Your ways! I now see that people can do very little on their 
own, for I did make my probation, as Jesus had told me. 

1 66 In prayer I always find light and strength of spirit although there are moments so trying 
and hurtful, that it is sometimes difficult to imagine that these things can happen in a 
convent. Strangely, God sometimes allows them, but always in order to manifest or 
develop virtue in a soul. That is the reason for trials. 

1 67 (84) Today [November, 1 932], I arrived in Warsaw for the third probation. After a cordial 
meeting with the dear Mothers, I went into the small chapel for a moment. Suddenly 
God’s presence filled my soul, and I heard these words, My daughter, I desire that your 
heart be formed after the model of My merciful Heart. You must be completely 
imbued with My mercy. 

Dear Mother Directress [Margaret] 

At once asked me whether I had had a retreat that year, and I said no. “Then you must 
first have a retreat of at least three days.” 



73 




Thanks be to God there was at Walendow 57 an eight-day retreat in which I could take 
part. But difficulties arose in regard to my leaving for this retreat. A certain person 
opposed my going very much, and it already [appeared that] I was not to go. After dinner, 
I went into the chapel for a five-minute adoration. Suddenly I saw the Lord Jesus, who 
said to me, My daughter, I am preparing many graces for you, which you will receive 
during this retreat which you will begin tomorrow. I answered, “Jesus, the retreat has 
already begun, and I am not supposed to go.” And He said to me, Get ready for it, 
because you will begin the retreat tomorrow. And as for your departure, I will 
arrange that with the superiors. And in an instant, Jesus disappeared. 

I began to wonder how this was going to happen. But after a moment I rejected all such 
thoughts and devoted the time I had to prayer, begging the Holy Spirit for light to see the 
whole misery that I am. After a short while, I left the little chapel to go about my duties. 
Soon Mother General [Michael] called me and said, “Sister, you will go to Walendow 
today with Mother Valeria so that you can start the retreat tomorrow. Fortunately, Mother 
Valeria happens to be here and you can go together.” Within two hours I was already in 
Walendow. I reflected for a moment within myself and recognized that only Jesus can 
arrange things in such a way. 

1 68 (85) When the person who so strongly opposed my participation in the retreat saw me, 
she showed surprise and dissatisfaction. Paying no heed to this, I greeted her 
affectionately and went to visit the Lord, in order to learn how I should conduct myself 
during the retreat. 

1 69 My conversation with the Lord Jesus before the retreat. Jesus told me that this retreat 
would be a little different from others. You shall strive to maintain a profound peace in 
respect to your communings with Me. I will remove all doubts in this regard. I 
know that you are at peace now as I speak to you, but the moment I stop talking 
you will start looking for doubts. But I want you to know that I will affirm your soul 
to such a degree that even if you wanted to be troubled, it will not be within your 
power. And as a proof that it is I who am speaking to you, you will go to 
confession on the second day of the retreat to the priest who is preaching the 
retreat; you will go to him as soon as he has finished his conference and will 
present to him all your doubts concerning Me. I will answer you through his lips, 
and then your fears will end. During this retreat, observe such strict silence that it 
will be as though nothing exists around you. You shall speak only to Me and to 
your confessor; you will ask your superiors only for penances. I felt immense joy 
that the Lord would show me such kindness and lower himself so much for my sake. 

1 70 The first day of the retreat. I tried to be the first in the chapel in the morning; before the 
meditation I had a bit of time for prayer to the Holy Spirit and to Our Lady. I earnestly 
begged the Mother of God to obtain for me the grace of fidelity to these inner inspirations 
and of faithfully carrying out God’s will, whatever it might be. I began this retreat with a 
very special kind of courage. 

171 (86) Struggle to keep silence. As usual, sisters from various houses came to the retreat. 
One of the sisters whom I had not seen for a long time, came to me cell and said she had 
something to tell me. I did not answer her, and she saw that I did not want to break 
silence. She said to me, “I didn’t know you were such an eccentric, sister,” and she went 
away. I was well aware that she had no other business with me than to satisfy her own 
curious self-love, O God, preserve me in faithfulness. 



74 




1 72 The father 58 who preached the retreat came from America. He had come to Poland for 
only a short time, and it so happened that he conducted our retreat. A deep interior life 
was reflected from his person. His bearing testified to the greatness of his spirit. 
Mortification and recollection characterized this priest. But despite these great virtues, I 
experienced much difficulty in revealing my soul to him in regard to graces received; as 
for sins, it is always easy to do so, but in respect to graces I really have to make a great 
effort, and even then I do not tell everything. 

1 73 Satan’s temptations during meditation. I felt a strange fear that the priest would not 
understand me, or that he would have no time to hear everything I would have to say. 

How am I going to tell him all this? If it were Father Bukowski I could do it more easily, 
but this Jesuit whom I am seeing for the first time. . . . Then I remembered Father 
Bukowski’s advice that I should at least take brief notes of the lights sent to me by God 
during the retreats and give him at least a brief report on them. My God, for a day and 
half all has gone well, and now a life and death struggle is beginning. The conference is 
to start in a half hour, and then I am to go to confession. 

Satan tried to persuade me into believing that if my superiors have told me that my inner 
life is an illusion, why should I ask again (87) and trouble the confessor? Didn’t M.X. 
[probably Mother Jane] tell you that the Lord Jesus does not commune with souls as 
miserable as yours? This confessor is going to tell you the same thing. Why speak to 
him about all this? These are not sins, and Mother X. told you that all this communing 
with the Lord Jesus was daydreaming and pure hysteria. So why tell it to this confessor? 
You would do better to dismiss all this as illusions. Look how many humiliations you have 
suffered because of them, and how many more are still awaiting you, and all the sisters 
know that you are a hysteric. “Jesus!” I called out with all the strength of my soul. 

1 74 At that moment the priest came in and began the conference. He spoke for a short time, 
as if he were in a hurry. After the conference, he went over to the confessional. Seeing 
that none of the sisters were going there, I sprang from my kneeler, and in an instant was 
in the confessional. There was no time to deliberate. Instead of telling the father about 
the doubts that had been sown in me in respect to my dealings with the Lord Jesus, I 
began to speak about these temptations I have just described above. The confessor 
immediately understood my situation and said, “Sister, you distrust the Lord Jesus 
because He treats you so kindly. Well, Sister, be completely at peace. Jesus is your 
Master, and your communing with Him is neither daydreaming nor hysteria nor illusion. 
Know that you are on the right path. Please try to be faithful to these graces; you are not 
free to shun them. You do not need at all, Sister, to tell your superiors about these 
interior graces, unless the Lord Jesus instructs you clearly to do so, and even then you 
should first consult with your confessor. But if the Lord Jesus demands something 
external, in this case, after consulting your confessor, you should carry out what He asks 
of you, even if this costs you greatly. On the other hand, you must tell your confessor 
everything. There is absolutely no other course for you to take, Sister. Pray that (88) you 
may find a spiritual director, or else you will waste these great gifts of God. I repeat once 
again, be at peace; you are following the right path. Take no heed of anything else, but 
always be faithful to the Lord Jesus, no matter what anyone says about you. It is with just 
such miserable souls that the Lord Jesus communes in this intimate way. And the more 
you humble yourself, the more the Lord Jesus will unite Himself with you.” 



75 




1 75 When I left the confessional, ineffable joy filled my soul, so that I withdrew to a secluded 
spot in the garden to hide myself from the sisters to allow my heart to pour itself out to 
God. God’s presence penetrated me and, in an instant, all my nothingness was drowned 
in God; and at the same moment I felt, or rather discerned, the Three Divine Persons 
dwelling in me. And I had such great peace in my soul that I myself was surprised that I 
could have had so many misgivings. 

176 + Resolution: Faithfulness to inner inspirations, even though I would have no idea how 
much I would have to pay for it. I must do nothing on my own without first consulting the 
confessor. 

177 + Renewal of vows. From the moment I woke up in the morning, my spirit was totally 
submerged in God, in that ocean of love. I felt that I had been completely immersed in 
Him. During Holy Mass, my love for Him reached a peak of intensity. After the renewal of 
vows and Holy Communion, I suddenly saw the Lord Jesus, who said to me with great 
kindness, My daughter, look at My merciful Heart. As I fixed my gaze on the Most 
Sacred Heart, the same rays of light, as are represented in the image as blood and 
water, came forth from it, and I understood how great is the Lord’s mercy. And again 
Jesus said to me with kindness, My daughter, speak to priests about this 
inconceivable mercy of Mine. The flames of mercy are burning Me - clamoring to 
be spent; I want to keep pouring them out upon souls; souls just don’t want to 
believe in My goodness. Suddenly Jesus disappeared. But throughout that whole day 
my spirit remained immersed ( 89 ) in God’s tangible presence, despite the buzz and 
chatter that usually follow a retreat. It did not disturb me in the least. My spirit was in 
God, although externally I took part in the conversations and even went to visit Derdy. 59 

1 78 Today we are beginning the third probation. All three of us met at Mother Margaret’s, as 
the other sisters were having their probation in the novitiate. Mother Margaret began with 
a prayer, explained to us what the third probation consists of, and then spoke on how 
great is the grace of the perpetual vows. Suddenly, I began to cry out loud. In an instant 
all God’s graces appeared before the eyes of my soul, and I saw myself so wretched and 
ungrateful toward God. The sisters began to rebuke me, saying, “Why did she break out 
crying?” But Mother Margaret came to my defense, saying that she was not surprised. 

At the end of the hour, I went before the Blessed Sacrament and, like the greatest and 
most miserable of wretches, I begged for His mercy that He might heal and purify my poor 
soul. Then I head these words, My daughter, all your miseries have been consumed 
in the flame of My love, like a little twig thrown into a roaring fire. By humbling 
yourself in this way, you draw upon yourself and upon other souls an entire sea of 
My mercy. I answered, “Jesus, mold my poor heart according to Your divine delight.” 

1 79 Throughout the third probation it was my duty to help the sister in the vestiary. 60 This 
duty gave me many occasions to practice virtues. Sometimes I had to take linen to 
certain sisters three times and still one could not satisfy them. But I also came to 
recognize the great virtues of some sisters who always asked ( 90 ) for the poorest things 
from the vestiary. I admired their spirit of humility and mortification. 

1 80 + During Advent, a great yearning for God arose in my soul. My spirit rushed toward god 
with all its might. During that time, the Lord gave me much light to know His attributes. 



76 




The first attribute which the Lord gave me to know is His holiness. His holiness is so 
great that all the Powers and Virtues tremble before Him. The pure spirits veil their faces 
and lose themselves in unending adoration, and with one single word they express the 

highest form of adoration; that is - Holy The holiness of god is poured out upon the 

Church of God and upon every living soul in it, but not in the same degree. There are 
souls who are completely penetrated by God, and there are those who are barely alive. 

The second kind of knowledge which the Lord granted me concerns His justice. His 
justice is so great and penetrating that it reaches deep into the heart of things, and all 
things stand before Him in naked truth, and nothing can withstand Him. 

The third attribute is love and mercy. And I understood that the greatest attribute is love 
and mercy. It unites the creature with the Creator. This immense love and abyss of 
mercy are made known in the Incarnation of the Word and in the Redemption [of 
humanity], and it is here that I saw this as the greatest of all God’s attributes. 

1 81 Today I was cleaning the room of one of the sisters. Although I was trying to clean it with 
utmost care, she kept following me all the time and saying, “You’ve left a speck of dust 
here and a spot on the floor there.” At each of her remarks I did each place over a dozen 
times (91) just to satisfy her. It is not work that makes me tired, but all this talking and 
excessive demands. My whole day’s martyrdom was not enough for her, so she went to 
the Directress and complained, “Mother, who is this careless sister who doesn’t know how 
to work quickly?” The next day, I went again to do the same job, without trying to explain 
myself. When she started driving me, I thought, “Jesus, one can be a silent martyr; it is 
not the work that wears you out, but this kind of martyrdom.” 

1 82 I learned that certain people have a special gift for vexing others. They try you as best 
they can. The poor soul that falls into their hands can do nothing right; her best efforts 
are maliciously criticized. 



+Christmas Eve. 

Today I was closely united with the Mother of God. I relived her interior sentiments. In 
the evening, before the ceremony of the breaking of the wafer, I went into the chapel to 
break the wafer, in spirit, with my loved ones, and I asked the Mother of God for graces 
for them. My spirit was totally steeped in God. During the Midnight Mass [“Pasterka” or 
Shepherds’ Mass], I saw the Child Jesus in the Host, and my spirit was immersed in Him. 
Although He was a tiny Child, His majesty penetrated my soul. I was permeated to the 
depths of my being by this mystery, this great abasement on the part of God, this 
inconceivable emptying of Himself. These sentiments remained vividly alive in my soul all 
through the festive season. Oh, we shall never comprehend this great self-abasement on 
the part of God; the more I think of it, [unfinished thought]. 

183 One morning after Holy Communion, I heard this voice, I desire that you accompany 
Me when I go to the sick. I answered that I was quite willing, but after a moment of 
reflection I started wondering how I was going to do so; the sisters of the second choir 61 
do not accompany the Blessed Sacrament. It is always the sister-directresses who go. 
(92) I thought to myself: Jesus will find a way. Shortly afterwards, Mother Raphael sent 
for me and said, “Sister, you will accompany the Lord Jesus when the priest goes to visit 
the sick.” And all through the time of my probation I carried the light, accompanying the 
Lord and, as a knight of Jesus, I always tried to gird myself with an iron belt, 62 for it would 



77 




not be proper to accompany the King in everyday dress. And I offered this mortification 
for the sick. 

184 +Holy Hour. During this hour, I tried to meditate on the Lord’s Passion. But my soul was 
filled with joy, and suddenly I saw the Child Jesus. But His majesty penetrated me to 
such an extent that I said, “Jesus, You are so little, and yet I know that You are my 
Creator and Lord.” And Jesus answered me, I am, and I keep company with you as a 
child to teach you humility and simplicity. 

I gathered all my sufferings and difficulties into a bouquet for Jesus for the day of our 
perpetual betrothal. Nothing was difficult for me, when I remembered it was for my 
Betrothed as proof of my love for Him. 

1 85 +My silence for Jesus. I strove after great silence for Jesus. Amidst the greatest din, 
Jesus always found silence in my heart, although it sometimes cost me a lot. But what 
can be too great for Jesus, for Him whom I love with all the strength of my heart? 

1 86 +Today Jesus said to me, I desire that you know more profoundly the love that burns 
in My Heart for souls, and you will understand this when you meditate upon My 
Passion. Call upon My mercy on behalf of sinners; I desire their (93) salvation. 
When you say this prayer, with a contrite heart and with faith on behalf of some 
sinner, I will give him the grace of conversion. This is the prayer: 

1 87 “O Blood and Water, which gushed forth from the Heart of Jesus as a fount of 
Mercy for us, I trust in You.” 

1 88 During the last days of the carnival, when I was making a Holy hour, I saw how the Lord 
Jesus suffered as He was being scourged. Oh, such an inconceivable agony! How 
terribly Jesus suffered during the scourging! O poor sinners, on the day of judgment how 
will you face the Jesus whom you are now torturing so cruelly: His blood flowed to the 
ground, and in some places His flesh started to fall off. I saw a few bare bones on His 
back. The meek Jesus moaned softly and sighed. 

1 89 On one occasion, Jesus gave me to know how pleasing to Him is the soul that faithfully 
keeps the rule. A soul will receive a greater reward for observing the rule than for 
penances and great mortifications. The latter will be rewarded also if they are undertaken 
over and above the rule, but they will not surpass the rule. 

190 Once during an adoration, the Lord demanded that I give myself up to Him as an offering, 
by bearing a certain suffering in atonement, not only for the sins of the world in general, 
but specifically for transgressions committed in this house. Immediately I said, “Very 
good; I am ready.” But Jesus gave me to see what I was going to suffer, and in one 
moment the whole passion unfolded itself before my eyes. Firstly, my intentions will not 
be recognized; there will be all kinds of suspicion and distrust as well as various kinds of 
humiliations and adversities. I will not mention everything here, (94) All these things 
stood before my soul’s eye like a dark storm from which lightning was ready to strike at 
any moment, waiting only for my consent. For a moment, my nature was frightened. 

Then suddenly the dinner bell rang. I left the chapel, trembling and undecided. But the 
sacrifice was ever present before me, for I had neither decided to accept it, nor had I 
refused the Lord. I wanted to place myself completely in His will. If the Lord Jesus 



78 




Himself were to impose it on me, I was ready. But Jesus gave me to know that I myself 
was to give my free consent and accept it with full consciousness, or else it would be 
meaningless. Its whole power was contained in my free act before God. But at the same 
time, Jesus gave me to understand that the decision was completely within my power. I 
could do it or not do it. And so I then answered immediately, “Jesus, I accept everything 
that You wish to send me; I trust in Your goodness.” At that moment, I felt that by this act 
I glorified God greatly. But I armed myself with patience. As soon as I left the chapel, I 
had an encounter with reality. I do not want to describe the details, but there was as 
much of it as I was able to bear. I would not have been able to bear even one drop more. 

191 +One morning I heard these words in my soul: Go to Mother General [Michael] and tell 
her that this thing displeases Me in such and such a house. I cannot mention what 
the thing was nor the house in question, but I did tell it to Mother General, although it cost 
me very much. 

1 92 Once, I took upon myself a terrible temptation which one of our students in the house at 
Warsaw was going through. It was the temptation of suicide. For seven days I suffered; 
and after the seven days Jesus granted her the grace which was being asked, and then 
my suffering also ceased. It was a great suffering. I often take upon myself the torments 
of our students. Jesus permits me to do this, and so do my confessors. 

1 93 (95) My heart is a permanent dwelling place for Jesus. No one but Jesus has access to 
it. It is from Jesus that I derive strength to fight difficulties and oppositions. I want to be 
transformed into Jesus in order to be able to give myself completely to souls. Without 
Jesus I would not get near to souls, because I know what I am of myself. I absorb God 
into myself in order to give Him to souls. 

1 94 +March 27. I desire to struggle, toil and empty myself for our work of saving immortal 
souls. It does not matter if these efforts should shorten my life; it is no longer mine, but 
belongs to the Community. I want to be useful to the whole Church by being faithful to my 
Community. 

1 95 O Jesus, today my soul is as though darkened by suffering. Not a single ray of light. The 
storm is raging, and Jesus is asleep. O my Master, I will not wake You; I will not interrupt 
Your sweet sleep. I believe that You fortify me without my knowing it. 

Throughout the long hours I adore You, O living Bread, amidst the great drought in my 
soul. O Jesus, pure Love, I do not need consolations; I am nourished by Your will, O 
Mighty One! Your will is the goal of my existence. It seems to me that the whole world 
serves me and depends on me. You, O Lord, understand my soul with all its aspirations. 

Jesus, when I myself cannot sing You the hymn of love, I admire the singing of the 
Seraphim, they who are so dearly loved by You. I desire to drown myself in You as they 
do. Nothing will stem such love, for no might has power over it. It is like lightning that 
illuminates the darkness, (96) but does not remain in it. O my Master, shape my soul 
according to Your will and Your eternal designs! 

1 96 A certain person seems to have made it her task to try out my virtue in all sorts of ways. 
One day, she stopped me in the corridor and began by saying that she had no grounds 
for rebuking me, but she ordered me to stand there opposite the small chapel 63 for half an 



79 




hour and to wait for Mother Superior, who was to pass by there after recreation, 64 and I 
was to accuse myself of various things which she had told me to say. Although I had no 
idea of these things being on my soul, I was obedient and waited for Mother Superior for 
a full half hour. Each sister who passed by looked at me with a smile. When I accused 
myself before Mother Superior [Raphael], she sent me to my confessor. When I made my 
confession, the priest saw immediately that this was something that did not come from my 
own soul and that I had not the faintest idea of such things. He was very surprised that 
this person had dared to take upon herself to give such orders. 

1 97 O Church of God, you are the best mother, you alone can rear a soul and cause it to 
grow. Oh, how great is my love and respect for the Church, that best of all mothers! 

1 98 On one occasion the Lord said to me, My daughter, your confidence and love restrain 
My justice, and I cannot inflict punishment because you hinder Me from doing so. 

Oh, how great is the power of a soul filled with confidence! 

1 99 When I think of my perpetual vows and Who it is that wants to be joined with me, for 
hours I become absorbed in the thought of Him. How can this be; You are God and I - I 
am Your creature. You, the Immortal King and I, a beggar and misery itself! But now all 
is clear to me; (97) Your grace and Your love, O Lord, will fill the gulf between You, 

Jesus, and me. 

200 O Jesus, how deeply it hurts the soul when it is always trying to be sincere and they 
accuse it of hypocrisy and behave with mistrust toward it. O Jesus, You also suffered like 
this to make satisfaction to Your Father. 

201 I want to hide myself so that no creature might know my heart. Jesus, You alone know 

my heart and possess it whole and entire. No one knows our secret. We understand 
each other mutually with one look. From the moment we came to know each other I have 
been happy. Your greatness is my fullness. O Jesus, when I am in the last place, lower 
than the postulants, even the youngest of them, then I feel that I am in my proper place. I 
did not know that the Lord had put so much happiness in these drab little corners. Now I 
understand that even in prison there can burst forth from a pure heart the fullness of love 
for You, O Lord! External things mean nothing to pure love; it cuts through them all. 
Neither prison doors nor the gates of heaven are strong enough to stop it. It reaches God 
Himself, and nothing can quench it. It knows no obstacles; it is free like a queen and has 
free access to all places. Death itself must bow its head before it 

202 My sister [Wanda 65 ] came to see me today. When she told me of her plans, I was horror- 
stricken. How is such a thing possible? Such a beautiful little soul before the Lord, and 
yet, great darkness had come over her, and she did not know how to help herself. She 
had a dark view of everything. The good God entrusted her to my care, and for two 
weeks I was able to work with her. But how many sacrifices this soul cost me is known 
only to God. For no other soul did I bring so many sacrifices and sufferings and prayers 
before the throne of God as I did for her soul. (98) I felt that I had forced God to grant 
her grace. When I reflect on all this, I see that it was truly a miracle. Now I can see how 
much power intercessory prayer has before God. 



80 




203 Now, during this Lent, I often experience the Passion of the Lord Jesus in my own body. I 
experience deeply in my heart all that Jesus suffered, although no exterior sign betrays 
these sufferings of mine. Only my confessor knows about them. 

204 A short conversation with Mother Directress [Margaret]. When I asked her about some 
particulars concerning progress in the spiritual life, this holy Mother answered everything 
with great clarity. She said to me, “If you continue cooperating with God’s grace in this 
way, Sister, you will be only one step away from close union with God. You understand 
what I mean by this. This means that your characteristic trait should be faithfulness to the 
grace of the Lord, God does not lead all souls along such a path.” 

205 + The Resurrection. Today, during the [Mass of the] Resurrection, I saw the Lord Jesus 
in the midst of a great light. He approached me and said, Peace be to you, My children, 
and He lifted up His hand and gave His blessing. The wounds in His hands, feet and side 
were indelible and shining. When he looked at me with such kindness and love, my 
whole soul drowned itself in Him. And he said to me, You have taken a great part in My 
Passion; therefore I now give you a great share in My joy and glory. The whole time 
of the Resurrection [Mass] seemed like only a minute to me. A wondrous recollection 
filled my soul and lasted throughout the whole festal season. The kindness of Jesus is so 
great that I cannot express it. 

206 (99) The next day, after Communion, I heard the voice saying, My daughter, look into 
the abyss of My mercy and give praise and glory to this mercy of Mine. Do it in this 
way: Gather all sinners from the entire world and immerse them in the abyss of My 
mercy. I want to give Myself to souls; I yearn for souls, My daughter. On the day of 
My feast, the Feast of Mercy, you will go through the whole world and bring fainting 
souls to the spring of My mercy. I shall heal and strengthen them. 

207 I prayed today for a soul in agony, who was dying without the Holy Sacraments, although 
she desired them. But it was already too late. It was a relative of mine, my uncle’s wife. 
She was a soul pleasing to god. There was no distance between us at that moment. 

208 O you small, everyday sacrifices, you are to me like wild flowers which I strew over the 
feet of my beloved Jesus. I sometimes compare these trifles to the heroic virtues and that 
is because their enduring nature demands heroism. 

209 In my sufferings, I do not seek help from creatures, but God is everything to me. And yet, 
it often seems that even the Lord does not hear me. I arm myself with patience and 
silence, like a dove that does not complain and feels no bitterness when its children are 
being taken away from it. I want to soar into the very heat of the sun, and I do not want to 
stop in its vapors. I will not grow weary, because it is on You that I am leaning - O You, 
my Strength! 

210 I fervently beg the Lord to strengthen my faith, so that in my drab, everyday life I will not 
be guided by human dispositions, but by those of the spirit. Oh, how everything drags 
man towards the earth! But lively faith maintains the soul in the higher regions and 
assigns self-love its proper place; that is to say, the lowest one. 

21 1 (100) + Once again, a terrible darkness envelops my soul. It seems to me that I am 
falling prey to illusions. When I went to confession to obtain some light and peace, I did 



81 




not find these at all. The confessor 66 left me with even more doubts than I had before. 

He said to me, “I cannot discern what power is at work in you, Sister, perhaps it is God 
and perhaps it is the evil spirit.” When I left the confessional, I started to think about his 
words. The longer I did so, the deeper my soul sank into darkness. “Jesus, what am I to 
do?” When Jesus approached me with kindness, I was frightened, “Are you really 
Jesus?” On the one hand, I am drawn by love and, on the other, by fear. What torture! I 
cannot describe it! 

212 When I went to confession again, I got the answer, “I do not understand you Sister. It 
would be better if you did not come to me for confession.” O my God!. I have to do such 
violence to myself before I say anything about my spiritual life, and here I am getting this 
answer: “Sister, I do not understand you!” 

213 When I left the confessional, a multitude of torments oppressed me. I went before the 
Blessed Sacrament and said, “Jesus, save me; You see how weak I am!” Then I heard 
these words, I will give you help during the retreat before the vows. Encouraged by 
these words, I began to go forward without asking anyone’s advice. But I distrusted 
myself so much that I made up my mind to put an end to the doubts once and for all. I 
therefore looked forward with special eagerness to the retreat before perpetual vows. But 
even for many days before the retreat, I kept on asking God to give light to the priest who 
would hear my confession, so that he could say, once and for all, either yes or no. And I 
thought to myself, “I’ll be set at peace once and for all.” But I continued to worry whether 
anyone would be willing to hear me out concerning all these matters. And yet again, I 
decided not to think about all this and to put my trust in the Lord. The words that 
continued to ring in my ears were: “during the retreat.” 

214 ( 101 ) Everything is now ready. Tomorrow morning we are leaving for Cracow, for the 
retreat. Today I entered the chapel to thank the Lord for the countless graces He has 
bestowed on me during these five months. My heart was deeply touched at the thought 
of so many graces and so much care on the part of the superiors. 

215 My daughter, be at peace; I am taking all these matters upon Myself. I will arrange 
all things with your superiors and with the confessor. Speak to father Andrasz with 
the same simplicity and confidence with which you speak to Me. 

21 6 We have come to Cracow today [April 1 8, 1 933]. What a joy it is to find myself again 
where I took my first steps in the spiritual life! Dear Mother Directress [Mary Joseph] is 
ever the same, cheerful and full of love of neighbor. I entered the chapel for a moment 
and joy filled my soul. In a flash I recalled the whole ocean of graces that had been given 
me as a novice here. 

21 7 And today we gathered together to go for an hour’s visit to the novitiate. The Mother 
Directress, Mary Joseph, gave us a short talk and outlined the program of the retreat. As 
she spoke these few words to us, I saw before my eyes all the good things this dear 
Mother had done for us. I felt in my soul such a profound gratitude toward her. My heart 
grieved at the thought that this was the last time I would be in the novitiate. Now I must 
battle together with Jesus, work with Jesus, suffer with Jesus; in a word, live and die with 
Jesus. Mother Directress will no longer be at my heels to teach me here, warn me there, 
or to admonish, encourage or reproach me. I am so afraid of being on my own. Jesus, 



82 




do something about this. I will always have a superior, that’s true; but now a person is left 
more on her own. 

( 102 ) Cracow, April 21 , 1933 



+ For the Greater Glory of God 
The Eight-day Retreat before Perpetual Vows. 

218 lam beginning the retreat today, Jesus, my Master, guide me. Govern me according to 
Your will, purify my love that it may be worthy of You, do with me as Your most merciful 
Heart desires. Jesus, there will be just the two of us during these days until the moment 
of our union. Keep me, Jesus, in a recollected spirit! 

219 In the evening, the Lord said to me, My daughter, let nothing frighten or disconcert 
you. Remain deeply at peace. Everything is in My hands. I will give you to 
understand everything through Father Andrasz. Be like a child towards him. 

A Moment Before the Blessed Sacrament. 

220 O my eternal Lord and Creator, how am I going to thank You for this great favor; namely, 
that You have deigned to choose miserable me to be Your betrothed and that You are to 
unite me to Yourself in an eternal bond? O dearest Treasure of my heart, I offer You all 
the adoration and thanksgiving of the Saints and of all the choirs of Angels, and I united 
myself in a special way with Your Mother. O Mary, my Mother, I humbly beg of You, 
cover my soul with Your virginal cloak at this very important moment of my life, so that 
thus I may become dearer to Your Son and may worthily praise Your Son’s mercy before 
the whole world and throughout all eternity. 

221 (103) I could not understand the meditation today,. My spirit was so extraordinarily 
immersed in God. I could not force myself to think about what the priest was saying 
during the retreat [conferences]. I am often unable to think according to the points; my 
spirit is with the Lord, and that is my meditation. 

222 A few words from my conference with Mother Directress, Mary Joseph. She clarified 
many things for me, and she set me at peace as regards my spiritual life, reassuring me 
that I was on the right path. I thanked the Lord Jesus for this great favor, for she is the 
first of the superiors who did not cause me any doubts in this regard. Oh, how infinitely 
good god is! 

223 O living Host, my one and only strength, fountain of love and mercy, embrace the whole 
world, fortify faint souls. Oh, blessed by the instant and the moment when Jesus left us 
His most merciful Heart! 

224 To suffer without complaining, to bring comfort to others and to drown my own sufferings 
in the most Sacred Heart of Jesus! 

I will spend all my free moments at the feet of [Our Lord in] the Blessed Sacrament. At 
the feet of Jesus, I will seek light, comfort and strength. I will show my gratitude 
unceasingly to God for His great mercy towards me, never forgetting the favors He has 
bestowed on me, especially the grace of a vocation. 



83 




I will hide myself among the sisters like a little violet among lilies. I want to blossom for 
my Lord and Maker, to forget about myself, to empty myself totally for the sake of 
immortal souls - this is my delight. 

(104) + A few of my thoughts. 

225 As regards Holy Confession, I shall choose what costs and humiliates me most. 
Sometimes a trifle costs more than something greater. I will call to mind the Passion of 
Jesus at each confession, to arouse my heart to contrition. Insofar as possible, with the 
grace of God, I will always practice perfect contrition. I will devote more time to this 
contrition. Before I approach the confessional, I shall first enter the open and most 
merciful Heart of the Savior. When I leave the confessional, I shall rouse in my soul great 
gratitude to the Holy Trinity for this wonderful and inconceivable miracle of mercy that is 
wrought in my soul. And the more miserable my soul is, the more I feel the ocean of 
God’s mercy engulfing me and giving me strength and great power. 

226 The rules that I most often fail to obey: sometimes I break silence; disobedience to the 
signal of the bell; sometimes I meddle in other people’s affairs. I will do my very best to 
improve. 

I will avoid sisters who grumble, and if they cannot be avoided, I will at least keep silent 
before them, thus letting them know how sorry I am to hear such things. 

I must take no heed of the opinion of others, but obey the evidence of my own conscience 
and take God to be the witness of all my actions. I must do everything and act in all 
matters now as I would like to do and act at the hour of my death. For this reason, in 
every action I must be mindful of God. 

Avoid presumed permissions, 67 1 must report [even] small things to my superiors, and do 
so in as much detail as is possible. I must be faithful in my spiritual exercises; I must not 
easily ask to be dispensed from them. I must keep silence outside the time of recreation, 
and avoid jokes and witty words that make others laugh and break silence. I must have 
great appreciation (105) for even the most minute rules. I must not let myself become 
absorbed in the whirl of work, [but] take a break to look up to heaven. Speak little with 
people, but a good deal with God. Avoid familiarity. I must pay little attention as to who is 
for me and who is against me. I must not tell others about those things I have had to put 
up with. I must avoid speaking out loud to others during work. I must maintain peace and 
equanimity during times of suffering. In difficult moments, I must take refuge in the 
wounds of Jesus; I must seek consolation, comfort, light and affirmation in the wounds of 
Jesus. 

227 +ln the midst of trials I will try to see the loving hand of God. Nothing is as constant as 
suffering - it always faithfully keeps the soul company. O Jesus, I will let no one surpass 
me in loving You! 

+ O Jesus, hidden in the Blessed Sacrament, 

228 You see that in pronouncing my perpetual vows I am leaving the novitiate 68 today. Jesus, 
You know how weak and little I am, and so from today on, I am entering Your novitiate in 



84 




a very special way. I continue to be a novice, but Your novice, Jesus, and You will be my 
Master to the last day. Daily I will attend lectures at Your feet. I will not do the least thing 
by myself, without consulting You first as my Master. Jesus, how happy I am that You 
Yourself have drawn me and taken me into Your novitiate; that is to say, into the 
tabernacle. In making my perpetual vows, I have by no means become a perfect nun. 

No, no! I am still a weak little novice of Jesus, and I must strive to acquire perfection as I 
did in the first days of the novitiate, and I will make every effort to keep the same 
disposition of soul which I had on that first day the convent gate opened to admit me. 

With the trust and simplicity of a small child, I give myself to You today, O Lord Jesus, my 
Master. I leave You complete freedom in directing my soul. Guide me along the paths 
You wish. I won’t question them. I will follow You trustingly. Your merciful Heart can do 
all things! 



The little novice of Jesus - Sister Faustina. 

229 (106) +At the beginning of the retreat, Jesus told me, During this retreat, I Myself will 
direct your soul. I want to confirm you in peace and love. And so, the first few days 
passed by. On the fourth day, doubts began to trouble me; Is not this tranquility of mine 
false? Then I heard these words, My daughter, imagine that you are the sovereign of 
all the world and have the power to dispose of all things according to your good 
pleasure. You have the power to do all the good you want, and suddenly a little 
child knocks on your door, and trembling and in tears and, trusting in your 
kindness, asks for a piece of bread lest he die of starvation. What would you do for 
this child? Answer Me, my daughter. And I said, “Jesus, I would give the child all it 
asked and a thousand times more.” And the Lord said to me, That is how I am treating 
your soul. In this retreat I am giving you, not only peace, but also such a 
disposition of soul that even if you wanted to experience uneasiness you could not 
do so. My love has taken possession of your soul, and I want you to be confirmed 
in it. Bring your ear close to My Heart, forget everything else, and meditate upon 
My wondrous mercy. My love will give you the strength and courage you need in 
these matters. 

230 Jesus, living Host, You are my Mother, You are my all! It is with simplicity and love, with 
faith and trust that I will always come to You, O Jesus! I will share everything with You, 
as a child with its loving mother, my joys and sorrows - in a word, everything. 

231 No one can comprehend what my heart feels when I meditate on the fact that God unites 
me with Himself through the vows. God makes known to me, even now, the immensity of 
the love He already had for me before time began; and as for me, I have just begun to 
love Him, in time. His love was [ever] great, pure and disinterested, and my love for Him 
comes from the fact that I am beginning to know Him. The more I come to know Him, the 
more (107) ardently, the more fiercely I love Him, and the more perfect my acts become. 
Meanwhile, each time I call to mind that in a few days I am to become one with the Lord 
through perpetual vows, a joy beyond all description floods my soul. From the very first 
time that I came to know the Lord, the gaze of my soul became drowned in Him for all 
eternity. Each time the Lord draws close to me and my knowledge of Him grows deeper, 
a more perfect love grows within my soul. 



85 




232 +Before confession, I heard these words in my soul, My daughter, tell him everything 
and reveal your soul to him as you do before Me. Do not fear anything. It is to 
keep you in peace that I place this priest between your soul and Myself. The words 
he will speak to you are My words. Reveal to him your soul’s greatest secrets, I will 
give him light to know your soul. 

233 When I approached the confessional, I felt so much at ease in my soul about speaking of 
everything that, later on, I myself was astounded. His answers brought a great peace into 
my soul. His words were, are, and always will be pillars of fire which enlightened and will 
go on enlightening my soul in its pursuit of the greatest sanctity. 

The directions I received from Father Andrasz I have noted on another page in this 
notebook [cf. Diary no. 55]. 

234 When I finished this confession, my spirit was immersed in God, and I prayed for three 
hours, but it seemed to me like only a few minutes. Since then, I have placed no 
obstacles in the way of grace working in my soul. Jesus knew why I had been afraid to 
commune intimately with Him and was not at all offended. From the moment the priest 
assured me that what I had experienced was not an illusion, but the grace of God, I have 
tried to be faithful to God in everything. I can see now that there are few such priests who 
understand the full depth of God’s work in the soul. Since then, my wings have been set 
free for flight, and I yearn to soar into the very fire of the sun. My flight will not come to an 
end until I rest in Him forever. When we fly very high, all the vapors, mists, and (108) 
clouds are beneath our feet, and our whole carnal being is necessarily subject to the 
spirit. 

235 O Jesus, I long for the salvation of immortal souls. It is in sacrifice that my heart will find 
free expression, in sacrifice which no one will suspect. I will burn and be consumed 
unseen in the holy flames of the love of God. The presence of God will help my sacrifice 
to be perfect and pure. 

236 Oh, how misleading are appearances, and how unjust the judgments. Oh, how often 
virtue suffers only because it remains silent. To be sincere with those who are 
incessantly stinging us demands much self-denial. One bleeds, but there are no visible 
wounds. O Jesus, it is only on the last day that many of these things will be made known. 
What joy - none of our efforts will be lost! 

237 Holy Hour. During this hour of adoration, I saw the abyss of my misery; whatever there is 
of good in me is Yours, o Lord. But because I am so small and wretched, I have a right to 
count on Your boundless mercy. 

238 Evening. O Jesus, tomorrow morning I am to make my perpetual vows. I had asked 
heaven and earth and had called upon all beings to thank God for this immense and 
inconceivable favor of His when suddenly I heard these words, My daughter, your heart 
is My heaven. Just a few moments of prayer and I have to run, as they drive us out of 
everywhere; because every place - the chapel, the refectory, the recreation room and the 
kitchen - is being made ready for tomorrow, and we are to go to (109) bed. However, 
sleep is out of the question. Joy has driven sleep away. I thought: “What is it going to be 
like in heaven, if already here in exile God so fills my soul.” 



86 




239 Prayer during the Mass on the day of the perpetual vows. Today I place my heart on the 
paten where Your Heart has been placed, O Jesus, and today I offer myself together with 
you to God, Your Father and mine, as a sacrifice of love and praise. Father of Mercy, 
look upon the sacrifice of my heart, but through the wound in the Heart of Jesus. 

May 1,1933. First Day. 

Union with Jesus on the day of perpetual vows. Jesus, from now on Your Heart is mine, 
and mine is Yours alone. The very thought of Your Name, Jesus, is the delight of my 
heart. I truly would not be able to live without You, even for a moment, Jesus. Today my 
soul has lost itself in You, my only treasure. My love knows no obstacles in giving proof 
of itself to its Beloved. 

The words of Jesus during my perpetual vows: My spouse, our hearts are joined 
forever. Remember to Whom you have vowed.... Everything cannot be put into words. 

My petition while we were lying prostrate under the pall. 69 I begged the Lord to grant me 
the grace of never consciously and deliberately offending Him by even the smallest sin or 
imperfection. 

Jesus, I trust in You! Jesus, I love You with all my heart! 

When times are most difficult, You are my Mother. 

For love of You, O Jesus, I die completely to myself today and begin to live for the greater 
glory of Your Holy Name. 

( 110 ) +Love, it is for love of You, O Most Holy Trinity, that I offer myself to You as an 
oblation of praise, as a holocaust of total self-immolation. And through this self- 
immolation, I desire the exaltation of Your Name. O Lord, I cast myself as a little rosebud 
at Your feet, O Lord, and may the fragrance of this flower be known to You alone. 

240 Three requests on the day of my perpetual vows, Jesus, I know that today You will refuse 
me nothing. 

First request: Jesus, my most beloved Spouse, I beg You for the triumph of the Church, 
particularly in Russia and in Spain; for blessings on the holy Father, Pius XI, and on all 
the clergy; for the grace of conversion for impenitent sinners. And I ask You for a special 
blessing and for light, O Jesus, for the priests before whom I will make my confessions 
throughout my lifetime. 

Second request: I beg Your blessings on our Congregation, and may it be filled with 
great zeal. Bless, O Jesus, our Mother General and our Mother Directress, all the 
novices and all the superiors. Bless my dearest parents. Bestow Your grace, O Jesus, 
on our wards; strengthen them so powerfully by Your grace so that those who leave our 
houses will no longer offend You by any sin. Jesus, I beg You for my homeland; protect it 
against the assaults of its enemies. 



87 




Third request: Jesus, I plead with You for the souls that are most in need of prayer. I 
plead for the dying; be merciful to them. I also beg You, Jesus, to free all souls from 
purgatory. 

Jesus, I commend to You these particular persons: My confessors, persons 
recommended to my prayers, a certain person...., Father Andrasz, Father Czaputa, and 
the priest I met in Vilnius [Father Sopocko], who is to be my confessor, a certain soul.... 

(111) a certain priest, a certain religious 70 to whom You know how much I owe, Jesus, 
and all the people who have been recommended to my prayer. Jesus, on this day You 
can do everything for those for whom I am pleading. For myself I ask, Lord, transform me 
completely into Yourself, maintain in me a holy zeal for Your glory, give me the grace and 
spiritual strength to do Your holy will in all things. 

Thank You, O my dearest Bridegroom, for the dignity You have conferred on me, and in 
particular for the royal coat-of-arms which will adorn me from this day on and which even 
the Angels do not possess; namely, the cross, the sword, and the crown of thorns. But 
above all, O my Jesus, I thank You for Your Heart - it is all I need. 

Mother of God, Most Holy Mary, my Mother, You are my Mother in a special way now 
because Your beloved Son is my Bridegroom, and thus we are both Your children. For 
your Son’s sake, You have to love me. O Mary, my dearest Mother, guide my spiritual life 
in such a way that it will please Your Son. 

+Holy and Omnipotent God, at this moment of immense grace by which You are uniting 
me with Yourself forever, I, mere nothingness, with the utmost gratitude, cast myself at 
Your feet like a tiny, unknown flower and, each day, the fragrance of that flower of love 
will ascend to Your throne. 

In times of struggle and suffering, of darkness and storm, of yearning and sorrow, in times 
of difficult trials, in times when nobody will understand me, when I will even be 
condemned and scorned by everyone, I will remember the day of my perpetual vows, the 
day of God’s incomprehensible grace. 

(112) J.M.J. 

Special Resolutions of the Retreat, May 1, 1933 

241 Love of neighbor. First: Helpfulness towards the sisters. Second: Do not speak about 
those who are absent, and defend the good name of my neighbor. Third: Rejoice in the 
success of others. 

242 +0 God, how much I desire to be a small child. 71 You are my Father, and You know how 
little and weak I am. So I beg You, keep me close by Your side all my life and especially 
at the hour of my death. Jesus, I know that Your goodness surpasses the goodness of a 
most tender mother. 

243 I will thank the Lord Jesus for every humiliation and will pray especially for the person 
who has given me the chance to be humiliated. I will immolate myself for the benefit of 
souls. I will not count the cost of any sacrifice, I will cast myself beneath the feet of the 
sisters, like a carpet on which they can not only tread, but also wipe their feet. My place 



88 




is under the feet of the sisters. I will make every effort to obtain that place unnoticed by 
others. It is enough that God sees this. 



244 Now a gray, ordinary day has begun, The solemn hours of the perpetual vows have 
passed, but God’s great grace has remained in my soul. I feel I am all God’s; I feel I am 
His child, I feel I am wholly God’s property. I experience this in a way that can be 
physically sensed. I am completely at peace about everything, because I know it is the 
Spouse’s business to look after me. I have forgotten about myself completely. My trust 
placed in His Most Merciful Heart has no limit. I am continuously united with Him. It 
seems to me as though Jesus could not be happy without me, nor could I, without Him. 
Although I understand that, being God, He is happy in Himself and has absolutely no 
need of any creature, still, His goodness compels Him to give Himself to the creature, and 
with a generosity which is beyond understanding. 

245 (1 1 3) My Jesus, I will now strive to give honor and glory to Your Name, doing battle till 
the day on which You Yourself will say, enough! Every soul You have entrusted to me, 
Jesus, I will try to aid with prayer and sacrifice, so that Your grace can work in them. O 
great lover of souls, my Jesus, I thank You for this immense confidence with which You 
have deigned to place souls in our care. O, you days of work and of monotony, you are 
not monotonous to me at all, for each moment brings me new graces and opportunity to 
do good. 

+ [April] 25, 1933 



Monthly Permissions 72 

246 To enter the chapel when I pass near it. 

To pray in my moments of leisure. 

To accept, give or lend small things. 

To have a mid-morning and an afternoon snack. 

Sometimes I will not be able to take part in recreation. 

Sometimes I will not be able to take part in community exercises. 

Sometimes I will not be able to take part in evening and morning prayers. 

Sometimes to remain at work a little longer after nine or to make my spiritual exercises 
after nine. 

To write down something or take notes when I have a free moment. 

To telephone. 

To go out of the house. 

To visit a church when I am in town. 

To enter other sisters’ cells in case of need. 

To take a drink of water occasionally outside the prescribed times. 

Small Mortifications 

To recite the Chaplet of The Divine Mercy with outstretched arms. 

On Saturdays, to say five decades of the Rosary with outstretched arms. 

To sometimes recite a prayer [while] lying prostrate. 

On Thursdays, a Holy Hour. 

On Fridays, some greater mortification for dying sinners. 



89 




247 ( 114 ) Jesus, Friend of a lonely heart, You are my heaven. You are my peace. You are 
my salvation, You are my serenity in moments of struggle and amidst an ocean of doubts. 
You are the bright ray that lights up the path of my life. You are everything to a lonely 
soul. You understand the soul even though it remains silent. You know our weaknesses, 
and like a good physician, You comfort and heal, sparing us sufferings - expert that You 
are. 

248 The words of the Bishop [Rospond 73 ], spoken at the ceremony of the taking of perpetual 
vows: “Accept this candle as a sign of heavenly light and or burning love.” 

While giving the ring: “I betroth you to Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father Most High; 
may He keep you unblemished. Take this ring as a sign of the eternal covenant you are 
making with Christ, the Spouse of Virgins. May it be for you the ring of faith and the sign 
of the Holy Spirit, that you may be called the bride of Christ and, if you serve Him 
faithfully, be crowned [as such] for all eternity.” 

249 +Jesus, I trust in You; I trust in the ocean of your mercy. You are a Mother to me. 

250 +This year, 1933, is for me an especially solemn year, because in this Jubilee Year of the 
Lord’s Passion, I have taken my perpetual vows. I have joined my sacrifice in a special 
way to the sacrifice of the crucified Jesus, in order to thus become more pleasing to God. 

I do all things with Jesus, through Jesus, in Jesus. 

251 After perpetual vows, I stayed in Cracow throughout the month of May, because it was 
undecided whether I was to go to Rabka or to Vilnius. Once Mother General [Michael] 
asked me, “Why are you sitting here so quietly and not getting ready to go somewhere, 
Sister?” I answered, “I want to do God’s pure will; wherever you bid me to go, dear 
Mother, I will know God’s pure will for me will be there, without any admixture on my part.” 

( 115 ) Mother General replied to this, “Very well!” The next day she summoned me 
and said, “You wanted to have God’s pure will, Sister; very well, then; you are going to 
Vilnius.” I thanked her and awaited the day when I would be told to go. However, my 
soul was filled with a certain joy and fear, at one and the same time. I felt that God was 
preparing great graces for me there, but also great sufferings. Yet, I stayed on in Cracow 
until the 27 th of May. As I had no regular duties, I only went to help in the garden. And, 
as it happened that I worked all alone for the whole month, I was able to make a Jesuit 
retreat. 4 Although I went to community recreation, I still managed to make the Jesuit 
retreat. I received much light from God during this time. 

252 +lt was four days after my perpetual vows. I was trying to make a Holy Hour. It was the 
first Thursday of the month. As soon as I entered the chapel, god’s presence enveloped 
me. I was distinctly aware that the Lord was near me. After a moment, I saw the Lord, all 
covered with wounds; and He said to me, Look at whom you have espoused. I 
understood the meaning of these words and answered the Lord, “Jesus, I love You more 
when I see You wounded and crushed with suffering like this than if I saw You in 
majesty.” Jesus asked, Why? I replied, “Great majesty terrifies me, little nothing that I 
am and Your wounds draw me to Your Heart and tell me of your great love for me.” After 
this conversation there was silence. I fixed my gaze upon His sacred wounds and felt 
happy to suffer with Him. I suffered, and yet I did not suffer, because I felt happy to know 
the depth of His love, and the hour passed like a minute. 



90 




253 +1 must never judge anyone, but look at others with leniency and at myself with severity. I 
must refer everything to God and, in my own eyes, recognize myself for what I am: utter 
misery and nothingness. In suffering, I must be patient and quiet, knowing that everything 
passes in time. 

254 (116) +The moments I lived through when I was taking my perpetual vows are better left 
unsaid. 

I am in Him, and He in me. As the Bishop [Rospond] was putting the ring on my finger, 
God pervaded my whole being, and since I cannot express that moment, I will be silent 
about it. My relationship with God, since perpetual vows, has been more intimate than it 
had ever been before. I sense that I love God and that He loves me. Having once tasted 
God, my soul could not live without Him. One hour spent at the foot of the altar in the 
greatest dryness of spirit is dearer to me than a hundred years of worldly pleasures. I 
prefer to be a lowly drudge in the convent than a queen in the world. 

255 +1 will hide from people’s eyes whatever good I am able to do so that God Himself may be 
my reward. I will be like a tiny violet hidden in the grass, which does not hurt the foot that 
treads on it, but diffuses its fragrance and, forgetting itself completely, tries to please the 
person who has crushed it underfoot. This is very difficult for human nature, but God’s 
grace comes to one’s aid. 

256 +Thank You, Jesus, for the great favor of making known to me the whole abyss of my 
misery. I know that I am an abyss of nothingness and that, if Your holy grace did not hold 
me up, I would return to nothingness in a moment. And so, with every beat of my heart, I 
thank You, my God, for Your great mercy towards me. 

257 Tomorrow I am to leave for Vilnius. Today, I went to confession to Father Andrasz, this 
priest who is so filled with the spirit of God, who untied my wings so that I could soar to 
the highest summits. He reassured me in everything and told me to believe in Divine 
Providence. “Have confidence and walk ahead with courage.” An extraordinary, divine 
power came over me after that confession. (117) Father stressed that I must be faithful 
to God’s grace and said, “No harm will come to you if, in the future, you continue to keep 
this same simplicity and obedience. Have confidence in God; you are on the right path 
and in good hands, in God’s hands.” 

258 +That evening, I remained in the chapel a little longer. I talked to the Lord about a certain 
soul. Encouraged by His goodness, I said, “Jesus, you gave me this Father who 
understands my inspirations, and now You are taking him away from me again. What am 

I going to do in this Vilnius? I don’t know anyone there, and even the dialect of the people 
there is foreign to me.” And the Lord said to me, Do not fear; I will not leave you to 
yourself. My soul drowned itself in a prayer of thanksgiving for all the graces that the 
Lord had granted me through the mediation of Father Andrasz. 

Suddenly, I remembered the vision in which I had seen that priest between the 
confessional and the altar, trusting that I would meet him some day. And the words I had 
heard came back vividly: He will help you to fulfill My will here on earth. 



91 




259 Today, 27 [May 1933], I am leaving for Vilnius. When I came out of the house, I looked at 
the garden and the house, and when I cast a glance at the novitiate, tears suddenly ran 
down my cheeks. I remembered all the blessings and graces bestowed on me by the 
Lord. Then, suddenly and unexpectedly, I saw the Lord by the flower bed and He said to 
me, Do not weep; I am with you always. God’s presence, which enveloped me as 
Jesus was speaking, accompanied me throughout the journey. 

260 I had permission to visit Czestochowa while on my journey. I saw the Mother of God 
[image] for the first time, when I went to attend the unveiling of the image at five in the 
morning,. I prayed without interruption until eleven, and it seemed to me that I had just 
come. The Superior of the house there [Mother Serafin 75 ] sent a sister for me, to tell me 
to come to breakfast and said she was worried (118) that I would miss my train. The 
Mother of God told me many things. I entrusted my perpetual vows to Her, I felt that I 
was her child and that She was my Mother. She did not refuse any of my requests. 

261 +1 am already in Vilnius today. A few scattered tiny huts make up the convent. It seems 
a bit strange to me after the large buildings of Jozefow. There are only eighteen sisters 
here. The house is small, but the community life is more intimate. All the sisters received 
me very warmly, which was for me a great encouragement to endure the hardships that 
lay ahead. Sister Justine had even scrubbed the floor in anticipation of my arrival. 

262 +When I went to Benediction, Jesus enlightened me on how I was to conduct myself in 
respect to certain persons. I clung with all my might to the most sweet Heart of Jesus, 
knowing how much I would be exposed to external distractions because of the work I 
would be doing here in the garden, where I necessarily would be in close contact with lay 
persons. 

263 +The week for confession came and, to my great joy, I saw the priest I had known before 
coming to Vilnius. [That is to say,] I had known him by seeing him in a vision. At that 
moment, I heard these words in my soul: This is My faithful servant; he will help you 
to fulfill My will here on earth. Yet, I did not open myself to him as the Lord wishes. 

And for some time I struggled against grace. During each confession, God’s grace 
penetrated me in a very special way, yet I did not reveal my soul before him, and I had 
the intention of not going to confession to that priest. After this decision, a terrible anxiety 
entered my soul. God reproached me severely. When I did lay bare my soul completely 
to this priest, Jesus poured an ocean of graces into it. Now I understand what it means to 
be faithful to a particular grace. That one grace draws down a whole series of others. 

264 (119) +0 my Jesus, keep me near to You! See how weak I am! I cannot go a step 
forward by myself; so You, Jesus, must stand by me constantly like a mother by a 
helpless child - and even more so. 

265 Days of work, of struggle, and of suffering have begun. Everything continued according 
to the convent routine. One is always a novice, having to learn many things and to get to 
know about many things, because although the rule is the same, each house has its own 
customs; and thus, each change is a little novitiate. 

August 5, 1933, The Feast of our Lady of Mercy. 



92 




266 Today I received a great and incomprehensible grace, a purely interior one, for which I 

will be grateful to God throughout this life and in eternity 

267 Jesus told me that I please Him best by meditating on His sorrowful Passion, and by such 
meditation much light falls upon my soul. He who wants to learn true humility should 
reflect upon the Passion of Jesus. When I meditate upon the Passion of Jesus, I get a 
clear understanding of many things I could not comprehend before. I want to resemble 
You, O Jesus, - You crucified, tortured, and humiliated. Jesus, imprint upon my heart and 
soul Your own humility. I love You, Jesus, to the point of madness, You who were 
crushed with suffering as described by the prophet [cf. Isaiah 53:2-9], as if he could not 
see the human form in You because of Your great suffering. It is in this condition, Jesus, 
that I love You to the point of madness. O eternal and infinite God, what has love done to 
You?.... 

268 October 11,1 933. -Thursday.- I tried to make a Holy Hour, but began it with great 
difficulty. A certain yearning started to tear at my heart. My mind was dimmed so that I 
could not understand the simplest forms of prayer. And so passed by an hour of prayer, 
or rather of struggle. I resolved to pray for a second hour, but my inner suffering 
increased - great (120) dryness and discouragement. I resolved to pray for a third hour. 
In the third hour, which I resolved to spend kneeling without any support, my body started 
to clamor for rest. But I in no way relented. I stretched out my arms and though I spoke 
no words, I persisted by sheer will. After a while, I took the ring off my finger and asked 
Jesus to look at the ring, that sign of our eternal union, and I offered Jesus the feelings I 
had on the day of perpetual vows. After a while, I feel my heart inundated with a wave of 
love. A sudden recollection of spirit, the senses quiet down, and God’s presence 
pervades my soul. I know only this: that it is Jesus and I. I saw Him just as He had 
appeared to me in that instant after my perpetual vows, when I was likewise making a 
Holy Hour. Jesus was suddenly standing before me, stripped of His clothes, His body 
completely covered with wounds, His eyes flooded with tears and blood, His face 
disfigured and covered with spittle. The Lord then said to me, The bride must resemble 
her Betrothed. I understood these words to their very depth. There is no room for doubt 
here. My likeness to Jesus must be through suffering and humility. See what love of 
human souls has done to Me. My daughter, in your heart I find everything that so 
great a number of souls refuses Me. Your heart is My repose. I often wait with 
great graces until towards the end of prayer. 

269 Once, when I had finished a novena to the Holy Spirit for the intention of my confessor 
[Father Sopocko], the Lord answered, I made him known to you even before your 
superiors had sent you here. As you will act towards your confessor, so I will act 
toward you. If you conceal something from him, even though it be the least of My 
graces, I too will hide Myself from you, and you will remain alone. And so I followed 
God’s wish, and a deep peace filled my soul. Now I understand how the Lord defends 
confessors and how He protects them. 

( 121 ) Advice of the rev. Dr. Sopocko. 

270 Without humility, we cannot be pleasing to God. Practice the third degree of humility; 76 
that is, not only must one refrain from explaining and defending oneself when reproached 
with something, but one should rejoice at the humiliation. 



93 




If the things you are telling me really come from God, prepare your soul for great 
suffering. You will encounter disapproval and persecution. They will look upon you as a 
hysteric and an eccentric, but the Lord will lavish His graces upon you. True works of 
God always meet opposition and are marked by suffering. If God wants to accomplish 
something, sooner or later He will do so in spite of the difficulties. Your part, in the 
meantime, is to arm yourself with great patience. 

271 When the Rev. Dr. Sopocko went to the Holy Land, Father Dabrowski, S.J., was the 

community’s confessor. During one confession he asked me if I was aware of the high 
degree of [spiritual] life that was present in my soul. I answered that I was aware of it and 
knew what was going on within me. To this the Father replied, “You must not destroy 
what is going on in your soul, Sister, nor must you change anything on your own. It is not 
in every soul that the beautiful gift of a higher interior life is manifest as it is in your case, 
Sister, for it is manifest in an immense degree. Be careful not to waste these great 
graces of God; a great ” [Here the thought breaks off.] 

272 But previously, this priest had put me through many trials. When I told him that the Lord 
wanted these things of me [that is, the painting of the image, the establishing of a feast of 
the Divine Mercy, and the founding of a new community], he laughed at me and told me 
to come to confession at eight in the evening. When I came at eight, a brother was 
already locking the church. When I told him that Father had ordered me to come at that 
time ( 122 ) 

and asked him to let Father know I was there, the good brother went to let him know. 
Father told him to tell me that priests do not hear confessions at that time of day. I 
returned home empty-handed and did not go to confession to him again, but made a 
whole hour’s adoration and took on certain mortifications for him, that he might obtain 
light from god in order to know souls. But when Father Sopocko left, and he substituted 
for him, I was forced to go to confession to him. Yet, while previously he had been 
unwilling to acknowledge these inner inspirations, he now put me under obligation to be 
faithful to them. God lets such things happen sometimes, but may He be glorified in 
everything. Still, it requires much grace not to falter. 

Annual Retreat. January 10, 1934. 

273 My Jesus, again the moment approaches when I will be alone with You. Jesus, I ask You 
with all my heart, let me know what there is in me that displeases You and also let me 
know what I should do to become more pleasing to You. Do not refuse me this favor and 
be with me. I know that without You, Lord, all my efforts will not amount to much. Oh, 
how I rejoice at Your greatness, O Lord! The more I come to know You, the more 
ardently I yearn for You and sigh after You! 

274 Jesus gave me the grace of knowing myself. In this divine light I see my principal fault; 
it is pride which takes the form of my closing up within myself and of a lack of simplicity 
in my relations with Mother Superior [Irene]. 

The second light concerns speaking. I sometimes talk too much. A thing could be settled 
in one or two words, and as for me, I take too much time about it. But Jesus wants me to 
use that time to say some short indulgenced prayers for the souls in purgatory. And the 
Lord says that every word will be weighed on the day of judgment. 



94 




( 123 ) The third light concerns our rules. I have not sufficiently avoided the occasions that 
lead to breaking the rules, especially that of silence. I will act as if the rule were written 
just for me; it should not affect me at all how anyone else might act, as long as I myself 
act as God wishes. 

Resolution. Whatever Jesus demands of me regarding external things, I will immediately 
go and tell my superiors. I shall strive for childlike openness and frankness in my 
relations with the superior. 

275 Jesus loves hidden souls. A hidden flower is the most fragrant. I must strive to make 
the interior of my soul a resting place for the Heart of Jesus. In difficult and painful 
moments, O my Creator, I sing You a hymn of trust, for bottomless is the abyss of my 
trust in You and in Your mercy! 

276 From the moment I came to love suffering, it ceased to be a suffering for me. Suffering 
is the daily food of my soul. 

277 I will not speak with a certain person, because I know that Jesus does not like it and that 
she does not profit by it. 

278 At the feet of the Lord. Hidden Jesus, Eternal Love, our Source of Life, divine Madman, 
in that You forget yourself and see only us. Before creating heaven and earth, You 
carried us in the depths of Your Heart. O Love, O depth of Your Abasement, O mystery 
of happiness, why do so few people know You? Why is Your love not returned? O 
Divine Love, why do You hide Your beauty? O infinite One beyond all understanding, 
the more I know You the less I comprehend You; but because I cannot comprehend 
You, I better comprehend Your greatness. I do not envy the Seraphim their fire, for I 
have a greater gift deposited in my heart. ( 124 ) They admire you in rapture, but Your 
Blood mingles with mine. Love is heaven given us already here on earth. Oh, why do 
You hide in faith? Love tears away the veil. There is no veil before the eye of my soul, 
for You Yourself have drawn me into the bosom of secret love forever. Praise and glory 
be to You, O indivisible Trinity, One God, unto ages of ages! 

279 God made known to me what true love consists in and gave light to me about how, in 
practice, to give proof of it to Him. True love of God consists in carrying out God’s will. 
To show God our love in what we do, all our actions, even the least, must spring from 
our love of God. And the Lord said to me, My child, you please me most by 
suffering. In your physical as well as your mental sufferings, my daughter, do not 
seek sympathy from creatures. I want the fragrance of your suffering to be pure 
and unadulterated. I want you to detach yourself, not only from creatures, but 
also from yourself. My daughter, I want to delight in the love of your heart, a pure 
love, virginal, unblemished, untarnished. The more you will come to love 
suffering, My daughter, the purer your love for Me will be. 

280 Jesus commanded me to celebrate the Feast of God’s Mercy on the first Sunday after 
Easter. [This I did] through interior recollection and exterior mortification, wearing the 
belt for three hours and praying continuously for sinners and for mercy on the whole 
world. And Jesus said to me, My eyes rest with pleasure upon this house today. 



95 




281 I feel certain that my mission will not come to an end upon my death, but will begin. O 
doubting souls, I will draw aside for you the veils of heaven to convince you of God’s 
goodness, so that you will no longer continue to wound with your distrust the sweetest 
Heart of Jesus. God is Love and Mercy. 

282 (125) Once the Lord said to me, My Heart was moved by great mercy towards you, 
My dearest child, when I saw you torn to shreds because of the great pain you 
suffered in repenting for your sins. I see your love, so pure and true that I give 
you first place among the virgins,. You are the honor and glory of My Passion. I 
see every abasement of your soul, and nothing escapes my attention. I lift up the 
humble even to My very throne, because I want it so. 

God, One in the Holy Trinity 

283 I want to love You as no human soul has ever loved You before; and although I am 
utterly miserable and small, I have, nevertheless, cast the anchor of my trust deep down 
into the abyss of Your mercy, O my God and Creator! In spite of my great misery I fear 
nothing, but hope to sing You a hymn of glory for ever. Let no soul, even the most 
miserable, fall prey to doubt; for, as long as one is alive, each one can become a great 
saint, so great is the power of God’s grace. It remains only for us not to oppose God’s 
action. 

284 O Jesus, if only I could become like mist before Your eyes, to cover the earth so that 
You would not see its terrible crimes. Jesus, when I look at the world and its 
indifference towards You, again and again it brings tears to my eyes; but when I look at 
a cold soul of a religious, my heart bleeds. 

285 1934. Once, when I returned to my cell, I was so tired that I had to rest a moment 
before I started to undress, and when I was already undressed, one of the sisters asked 
me to fetch her some hot water. Although I was tired, I dressed quickly and brought her 
the water she (126) wanted, even though it was quite a long walk from the cell to the 
kitchen, and the mud was ankle-deep. When I re-entered my cell, I saw the ciborium 
with the Blessed Sacrament, and I heard this voice, Take this ciborium and bring it to 
the tabernacle. I hesitated at first, but when I approached and touched it, I heard these 
words, Approach each of the sisters with the same love with which you approach 
Me; and whatever you do for them, you do it for Me. A moment later, I saw that I 
was alone. 

286 +Once, after an adoration for our country, a pain pierced my soul, and I began to pray in 
this way: “Most merciful Jesus, I beseech You through the intercession of Your Saints, 
and especially the intercession of Your dearest Mother who nurtured You from 
childhood, bless my native land. I beg You, Jesus, look not on our sins, but on the tears 
of little children, on the hunger and cold they suffer. Jesus, for the sake of these 
innocent ones, grant me the grace that I am asking of You for my country.” At that 
moment, I saw the Lord Jesus, His eyes filled with tears, and He said to me, You see, 
My daughter, what great compassion I have for them. Know that it is they who 
uphold the world. 

287 +My Jesus, when I look at this life of souls, I see that many of them serve You with 
some mistrust. At certain times, especially when there is an opportunity to sow their 



96 




love for God, I see them running away from the battlefield. And once Jesus said to me, 
Do you, my child, also want to act like that? I answered the Lord, “Oh, no, my 
Jesus, I will not retreat from the battlefield even if mortal sweat breaks out on my brow; I 
will not let the sword fall from my hand until I rest at the feet of the Holy Trinity! 

Whatever I do, I do not rely on my own strength, but on God’s grace. With God’s grace 
a soul can overcome the greatest difficulties. 

288 (127) +Once when I was having a long talk with Jesus about our student, encouraged 

by His kindness, I asked Him, “Do You have among our students any who are a comfort 
to Your Heart?” The Lord answered [that] he has, but their love is weak, and so I put 

them in your special care - pray for them. 

O great God, I admire Your goodness! You are the Lord of heavenly hosts, and yet You 
stoop so low to Your miserable creatures. Oh, how ardently I desire to love You with 
every beat of my heart! The whole extent of the earth is not enough for me, heaven is too 
small, and boundless space is nothing; You alone are enough for me, Eternal God! You 
alone can fill the depths of my soul. 

289 My happiest moments are when I am alone with my Lord. During these moments I 
experience the greatness of God and my own misery. 

Once, Jesus said to me, Do not be surprised that you are sometimes unjustly 
accused. I Myself first drank this cup of underserved suffering for love of you. 

290 Once, when I was deeply moved by the thought of eternity and its mysteries, my soul 
became fearful; and when I pondered about these a little longer, I started to be troubled 
by various doubts. Then Jesus said to me, My child, do not be afraid of the house of 
your Father. Leave these vain inquiries to the wise of this world. I want to see you 
always as a little child. Ask your confessor about everything with simplicity, and I 
will answer you through his lips. 

291 On a certain occasion, I saw a person about to commit a mortal sin. I asked the Lord to 
send me the greatest torments so that that soul could be saved. (128) Then I suddenly 
felt the terrible pain of a crown of thorns on my head. It lasted for quite a long time, but 
that person remained in the Lord’s grace. O my Jesus, how very easy it is to become 
holy; all that is needed is a bit of good will. If Jesus sees this little bit of good will in the 
soul, He hurries to give Himself to the soul, and nothing can stop Him, neither 
shortcomings nor falls - absolutely nothing. Jesus is anxious to help that soul, and if it is 
faithful to this grace from God, it can very soon attain the highest holiness possible for a 
creature here on earth. God is very generous and does not deny His grace to anyone. 
Indeed He gives more than what we ask of Him. Faithfulness to the inspirations of the 
Holy Spirit - that is the shortest route. 

292 +When a soul loves God sincerely, it ought not fear anything in the spiritual life. Let is 
subject itself to the action of grace, and let it not impose any restraints on itself in 
communing with the Lord. 

293 +When Jesus ravished me by His beauty and drew me to Himself, I then saw what in my 
soul was displeasing to Him and made up my mind to remove it, cost what it may; and 
aided by the grace of god I did remove it at once. This magnanimity pleased the Lord, 



97 




and from that moment God started granting me higher graces. In my interior life I never 
reason; I do not analyze the ways in which God’s Spirit leads me. It is enough for me to 
know that I am loved and that I love. Pure love enables me to know God and understand 
many mysteries. My confessor is an oracle for me. His word is sacred to me - I am 
speaking about the spiritual director [Father Sopocko]. 

294 +Once the Lord said to me, Act like a beggar who does not back away when he gets 
more alms [than he asked for], but offers thanks the more fervently. You too, 
should not back away and say that you are not worthy of receiving greater graces 
when I give them to you. I know you are unworthy, but rejoice all the more and take 
as many (129) treasures from My Heart as you can carry, for then you will please 
Me more. And I will tell you one more thing - take these graces not only for 
yourself, but also for others; that is, encourage the souls with whom you come in 
contact to trust in My infinite mercy. Oh, how I love those souls who have 
complete confidence in Me - I will do everything for them. 

295 +At that moment Jesus asked me, My child, how is your retreat going? I answered, 
“But Jesus, You know how it is going.” Yes, I know, but I want to hear it from your 
own lips and from your heart. “O my Master, when You are leading me, everything 
goes smoothly, and I ask You, Lord, to never leave my side.” And Jesus said, Yes, I will 
be with you always, if you always remain a little child and fear nothing. As I was 
your beginning here, so I will also be your end. Do not rely on creatures, even in 
the smallest things, because this displeases Me. I want to be alone in your soul. I 
will give light and strength to your soul, and you will learn from My representative 
that I am in you, and your uncertainty will vanish like mist before the rays of the 
sun. 

296 +0 Supreme Good, I want to love You as no one on earth has ever loved You before! I 
want to adore You with every moment of my life and unite my will closely to Your holy will. 
My life is not drab or monotonous, but it is varied like a garden of fragrant flowers, so that 

I don’t know which flower to pick first, the lily of suffering or the rose of love of neighbor or 
the violet of humility. I will not enumerate these treasures in which my every day 
abounds. It is a great thing to know how to make use of the present moment. 

297 +Jesus, Supreme Light, grant me the grace of knowing myself, and pierce my dark soul 

with Your light, and fill the abyss of my soul with Your own self, for You alone [ ] 

298 O my Jesus, the Life, the Way and the Truth, I beg You to keep me close to You as a 
mother holds a baby to her bosom, for I am not only a helpless child, but an accumulation 
of misery and nothingness. 

(130) + The Mystery of the Soul. Vilnius, 1 934 

299 When, on one occasion, my confessor told me to ask the Lord Jesus the meaning of the 
two rays in the image, 77 1 answered, “Very well, I will ask the Lord.” 

During prayer I head these words within me: The two rays denote Blood and Water. 
The pale ray stands for the Water which makes souls righteous. The red ray stands 
for the Blood which is the life of souls 



98 




These two rays issued forth from the very depths of My tender mercy when My 
agonized Heart was opened by a lance on the Cross. 

These rays shield souls from the wrath of My Father. Happy is the one who will 
dwell in their shelter, for the just hand of God shall not lay hold of him. I desire that 
the first Sunday after Easter be the Feast of Mercy. 

300 +Ask of my faithful servant [Father Sopocko] that, on this day, he tell the whole 
world of My great mercy; that whoever approaches the Fount of Life on this day will 
be granted complete remission of sins and punishment. 

+Mankind will not have peace until it turns with trust to My mercy. 

+Oh, how much I am hurt by a soul’s distrust! Such a soul professes that I am Holy 
and Just, but does not believe that I am Mercy and does not trust in My Goodness. 
Even the devils glorify My Justice but do not believe in My Goodness. 

My Heart rejoices in this title of Mercy. 

301 Proclaim that mercy is the greatest attribute of God. All the works of My hands are 
crowned with mercy. 

302 ( 131 ) +0 Eternal Love, I want all the souls You have created to come to know You. I 
would like to be a priest, for then I would speak without cease about Your mercy to sinful 
souls drowned in despair. I would like to be a missionary and carry the light of faith to 
savage nations in order to make You known to souls, and to be completely consumed for 
them and to die a martyr’s death, just as You died for them and for me. O Jesus, I know 
only too well that I can be a priest, a missionary, a preacher, and that I can die a martyr’s 
death by completely emptying myself and denying myself for love of You, O Jesus, and of 
immortal souls. 

303 Great love can change small things into great ones, and it is only love which lends value 
to our actions. And the purer our love becomes, the less there will be within us for the 
flames of suffering to feed upon, and the suffering will cease to be a suffering for us; it will 
become a delight! By the grace of God, I have received such a disposition of heart that I 
am never so happy as when I suffer for Jesus, whom I love with every beat of my heart. 

Once, when I was suffering greatly, I left my work and escaped to Jesus and asked Him 
to give me His strength. After a very short prayer, I returned to my work filled with 
enthusiasm and joy. Then, one of the sisters [probably Sister Justine] said to me, “You 
must have many consolations today, Sister; you look so radiant. Surely, God is giving 
you no suffering, but only consolations.” “You are greatly mistaken, Sister,” I answered, 
“for it is precisely when I suffer much that my joy is greater; and when I suffer less, my joy 
also is less.” However, that soul was letting me recognize that she does not understand 
what I was saying. I tried to explain to her that when we suffer much we have a great 
chance to show God that we love Him; but when we suffer little we have less occasion to 
show God our love; and when we do not suffer at all, our love is then neither great nor 
pure. By the grace of God, we can attain a point where suffering will become a delight for 
us, for love can work such things in pure souls. 



99 




304 ( 132 ) +0 my Jesus, my only hope, thank You for the book which You have opened 
before my soul’s eyes. That book is Your Passion which You underwent for love of me. It 
is from this book that I have learned how to love God and souls. In this book there are 
found for us inexhaustible treasures. O Jesus, how few souls understand You in Your 
martyrdom of love! Oh, how great is the fire of purest love which burns in Your Most 
Sacred Heart! Happy the soul that has come to understand the love of the Heart of 
Jesus! 

305 It is my greatest desire that souls should recognize You as their eternal happiness, that 
they should come to believe in Your goodness and glorify Your infinite mercy. 

306 I asked the Lord to grant me the grace that my nature be immune and resist the 
influences that sometimes try to draw me away from the spirit of our rule and from the 
minor regulations. These minor transgressions are like little moths that try to destroy the 
spiritual life within us, and they surely will destroy it if the soul is aware of these minor 
transgressions and yet disregards them as small things. I can see nothing that is small in 
the religious life. Little matter if I am sometimes the object of vexation and jeers, as long 
as my spirit remains in harmony with the spirit of the rules, the vows, and the religious 
statutes. 

0 my Jesus, delight of my heart, You know my desires. I should like to hide from 
people’s sight so as to be like one alive and yet not living. I want to live pure as a wild 
flower; I want my love always to be turned to You, just as a flower that is always turning to 
the sun. I want the fragrance and the freshness of the flower of my heart to be always 
preserved for You alone. I want to live beneath Your divine gaze, for You alone are 
enough for me. When I am with You, Jesus, I fear nothing, for nothing can do me harm. 

307 (133) + 1 934. Once during Lent, I saw a great light and a great darkness over house and 
chapel. I saw the struggle of these two powers.... 

308 1 934, Holy Thursday. Jesus said to me, I desire that you make an offering of yourself 
for sinners and especially for those souls who have lost hope in God’s mercy. 

God and Souls. An Act of Oblation. 

309 Before heaven and earth, before all the choirs of Angels, before the Most Holy Virgin 
Mary, before all the Powers of heaven, I declare to the One Triune God that today, in 
union with Jesus Christ, Redeemer of souls, I make a voluntary offering of myself for the 
conversion of sinners, especially for those souls who have lost hope in God’s mercy. This 
offering consists in my accepting, with total subjection to God’s will, all the sufferings, 
fears and terrors with which sinners are filled. In return, I give them all the consolations 
which my soul receives from my communion with God. In a word, I offer everything for 
them: Holy Masses, Holy Communions, penances, mortifications, prayers. I do not fear 
the blows, blows of divine justice, because I am united with Jesus. O my God, in this way 

1 want to make amends to You for the souls that do not trust in Your goodness. I hope 
against all hope in the ocean of Your mercy. My Lord and my God, my portion - my 
portion forever, I do not base this act of oblation on my own strength, but on the strength 
that flows from the merits of Jesus Christ. I will daily repeat this act of self-oblation by 
pronouncing the following prayer which you Yourself have taught me, Jesus: 



100 




“O Blood and Water which gushed forth from the Heart of Jesus as a Fount of 
Mercy for us, I trust in You!” 



S.M. Faustina of the Blessed Sacrament 
Holy Thursday, during Holy Mass, March 19, 1934 

310 (134) - I am giving you a share in the redemption of mankind. You are solace in 
My dying hour. 

31 1 When I received permission from my confessor [Father Sopocko] to make this act of 
oblation, I soon learned that it was pleasing to God, because I immediately began to 
experience its effects. In a moment my soul became like a stone - dried up, filled with 
torment, and disquiet. All sorts of blasphemies and curses kept pressing upon my 
ears. Distrust and despair invaded my heart. This is the condition of the poor people, 
which I have taken upon myself. At first, I was very much frightened by these horrible 
things, but during the first [opportune] confession, I was set at peace. 

31 2 +Once when I went outside the convent to go to confession [St. Michael’s Church], I 
chanced upon my confessor [Father Sopocko] saying Mass just then. After a while, I 
saw the Child Jesus on the altar, joyfully and playfully holding out His hands to him. 

But a moment later the priest took the beautiful Child into his hands, broke Him up and 
ate Him alive. At the first instant I felt a dislike for the priest for having done this to 
Jesus, but I was immediately enlightened in the matter and understood that this priest 
was very pleasing to God. 

313 +Once, when I was visiting the artist [Eugene Kazimirowski] who was painting the 
image, and saw that it was not as beautiful as Jesus is, I felt very sad about it, but I hid 
this deep in my heart. When we had left the artist’s house, Mother Superior [Irene] 
stayed in town to attend to some matters while I returned home alone. I went 
immediately to the chapel and wept a good deal. I said to the Lord, “Who will paint 
You as beautiful as You are?” Then I heard these words: Not in the beauty of the 
color, nor of the brush lies the greatness of this image, but in My grace. 

31 4 +When I went to the garden one afternoon, my Guardian Angel said to me, “Pray for 
the dying.” And so I began at once to pray the rosary with the gardeners for the dying. 
After the rosary, we said various prayers for the dying. After the prayers, the wards 
began to chat gaily among themselves. (135) In spite of the noise they were making, 

I heard these words in my soul: “Pray for me!” But as I could not understand these 
words very well, I moved a few steps away from the wards, trying to think who it could 

be who was asking me to pray. Then I heard the words: “I am Sister ” 78 This 

sister was in Warsaw while I was, at the time, in Vilnius. “Pray for me until I tell you to 
stop. I am dying.” Immediately, I began to pray fervently for her, [addressing myself] 
to the expiring Heart of Jesus. She gave me no respite, and I kept praying from three 
[o’clock] until five. At five, I heard the words: “Thank you!” and I understood that he 
had died. But during Holy Mass, on the following day, I continued to pray fervently for 
her soul. In the afternoon, a postcard came saying that Sister .... Had died at such 
and such a time. I understood that it was at the same hour when she had said to me, 
“Pray for me.” 



101 




31 5 +Mother of God, Your soul was plunged into a sea of bitterness; look upon Your child 
and teach her to suffer and to love while suffering. Fortify my soul that pain will not 
break it. Mother of grace, teach me to live by [the power of] God. 

31 6 Once, the Mother of God came to visit me. She was sad. Her eyes were cast down. 
She made it clear that She wanted to say something, and yet, on the other hand, it 
was as if She did not want to speak to me about it. When I understood this, I began to 
beg the Mother of God to tell me and to look at me. Just then Mary looked at me with 
a warm smile and said, You are going to experience certain sufferings because of an 
illness and the doctors; you will also suffer much because of the image, but do not be 
afraid of anything. The next day I fell ill and suffered a great deal, just as the Mother 
of God had told me. But my soul was ready for the sufferings. Suffering is a constant 
companion of my life. 

317 O my God, my only hope, I have placed all my trust in You, and I know I shall not be 
disappointed. 

318 ( 136 ) I often feel God’s presence after Holy Communion in a special and tangible way. 

I know God is in my heart. And the fact that I feel Him in my heart does not interfere 
with my duties. Even when I am dealing with very important matters which require 
attention, I do not lose the presence of God in my soul, and I am closely united with 
Him. With Him I go to work, with Him I go for recreation, with Him I suffer, with Him I 
rejoice; I live in Him and He in me. I am never alone, because He is my constant 
companion. He is present to me at every moment. Our intimacy is very close, 
through a union of blood and of life. 

31 9 August 9, 1 934. Night adoration on Thursdays. 79 I made my hour of adoration from 
eleven o’clock till midnight. I offered it for the conversion of hardened sinners, 
especially for those who have lost hope in God’s mercy. I was reflecting on how much 
God has suffered and on how great was the love He had shown for us, and on the fact 
that we still do not believe that God loves us so much. O Jesus, who can understand 
this? What suffering it is for our Savior! How can He convince us of His love if even 
His death cannot convince us? I called upon the whole of heaven to join me in making 
amends to the Lord for the ingratitude of certain souls. 

320 Jesus made known to me how very pleasing to Him were prayers of atonement. He 
said to me, The prayer of a humble and loving soul disarms the anger of My 
Father and draws down an ocean of blessings. After the adoration, half way to my 
cell, I was surrounded by a pack of huge black dogs who were jumping and howling 
and trying to tear me to pieces. I realized that they were not dogs, but demons. One 
of them spoke up in a rage, “Because you have snatched so many souls away from us 
this night, we will tear you to pieces.” In answered, “If that is the will of the most 
merciful god, tear me to pieces, for I have justly deserved it, because I am the most 
miserable of all sinners, and God is every holy, just, and infinitely merciful.” To these 
words all the demons answered as one, “Let us flee, for she is not alone; the Almighty 
is with her!” And they vanished like dust, like the noise of the road, while I continued 
on my way to my cell undisturbed, finishing my Te Deum and pondering the infinite 
and unfathomable mercy of God. 

( 137 ) August 12, 1934. 



102 




321 A sudden illness - a mortal suffering. It was not death, that is to say, a passing over 
to real life, but a taste of the sufferings of death. Although it gives us eternal life, 
death is dreadful. Suddenly, I felt sick, I gasped for breath, there was darkness before 
my eyes, my limbs grew numb - and there was a terrible suffocation. Even a moment 

of such suffocation is extremely long There also comes a strange fear, in spite of 

trust. I wanted to receive the last sacraments, but it was extremely difficult to make a 
confession even though I desired to do so. A person does not know what he is 
saying; not finishing one thing, he begins another. 

Oh, may God keep every soul from delaying confession until the last hour! In 
understood the great power of the priest’s words when they are poured out upon the 
sick person’s soul. When I asked my spiritual father whether I was ready to stand 
before the Lord and whether I could be at peace, I received the reply “You can be 
completely at peace, not only right now but after each weekly confession.” Great is 
the divine grace that accompanies these words of the priest. The soul feels power 
and courage for battle. 

322 O my Congregation, my mother, how sweet it is to live in you, but it is even better to 
die in you! 

323 After I received the last sacraments, there was a definite improvement. I remained 
alone. This lasted for half and hour and then came another attach; but this one was 
not so strong, as the doctor intervened. 

I united my sufferings with the sufferings of Jesus and offered them for myself and for 
the conversion of souls who do not trust in the goodness of God. Suddenly, my cell 
was filled with black figures full of anger and hatred for me. One of them said, “Be 
damned, you and He who is within you, for you are beginning to torment us even in 
hell.” As soon as I said, “And the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us,” the 
figures vanished in a sudden whir. 

324 The next day, I felt very weak, but experienced no further suffering. After Holy 
Communion, I saw the Lord Jesus just as I had seen Him during one adoration. The 
Lord’s gaze pierced my soul through and through, and not even the least speck of 
dust escaped His notice. And I said to Jesus, “Jesus, I thought You were going to 
take me.” And Jesus answered, My will has not yet been fully accomplished in 
you; you will still remain on earth, but not for long. I am well pleased with your 
trust, but your love should be more ardent. (138) Pure love gives the soul 
strength at the very moment of dying. When I was dying on the cross, I was not 
thinking about Myself, but about poor sinners, and I prayed for them to My 
Father. I want your last moments to be completely similar to Mine on the cross. 
There is but one price at which souls are brought, and that is suffering united to 
My suffering on the cross. Pure love understands these words; carnal love will 
never understand them. 

325 1 934. On the day of the Assumption of the Mother of God, I did not assist at Holy 
Mass. The woman doctor 80 did not allow me; but I prayed fervently in my cell. After a 
short time, I saw the Mother of God, unspeakably beautiful. She said to me, My 
daughter, what I demand from you is prayer, prayer, and once again prayer, for the 



103 




world and especially for your country. For nine days receive Holy Communion in 
atonement and unite yourself closely to the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass. During these 
nine days you will stand before God as an offering; always and everywhere, at all 
times and places, day or night, whenever you wake up, pray in the spirit. In spirit, one 
can always remain in prayer. 

326 Once, Jesus said to me, My gaze from this image is like My gaze from the cross. 

327 Once my confessor [Father Sopocko] asked me where the inscription should be 
placed, because there was not enough space in the picture for everything. In 
answered, “I will pray and give you an answer next week.” When I left the 
confessional and was passing before the Blessed Sacrament, I received an inner 
understanding about the inscription. Jesus reminded me of what He had told me the 
first time; namely, that these three words must be clearly in evidence: “Jesus, I trust in 
You.” [“Jezu, Ufam Tobie.”] I understood that Jesus wanted the whole formula to be 
there, but He gave no direct orders to this effect as He did for these three words. 

I am offering people a vessel with which they are to keep coming for graces to 
the fountain of mercy. That vessel is this image with the signature: “Jesus, I 
trust in You.” 

328 O purest Love, rule in all Your plenitude in my heart and help me to do Your holy with 
most faithfully! 

329 (139) Toward the end of a three-day retreat, I saw myself walking along a rough path. 

I kept stumbling continually, and I saw following me the figure of a person who kept 
supporting me. I was not happy with this and asked the person to leave me alone, as 

I wanted to walk on my own. But the figure, whom I could not recognize, did not leave 
me for a moment. I got impatient and turned around and pushed the person away 
from me. At that moment I saw that it was Mother Superior [Irene], and at the same 
moment I saw that it was not Mother Superior, but the Lord Jesus who looked deeply 
into me and gave me to understand how painful it was to Him when I did not, even in 
the smallest things, do my Superior’s will, which is My will, [He said]. I asked pardon 
of the Lord and took the warning very much to heart. 

330 -i-Once, the confessor told me to pray for this intention, and I began a novena to the 
Mother of God. This novena consisted in the prayer, “Hail, Holy Queen,” recited nine 
times. Toward the end of the novena I saw the Mother of God with the Infant Jesus in 
Her arms, and I also saw my confessor kneeling at Her feet and talking with her. I did 
not understand what he was saying to Her, because I was busy talking with the Infant 
Jesus, who came down from His Mother’s arms and approached me. I could not stop 
wondering at His beauty. I heard a few of the words that the Mother of God spoke to 
him [i.e., my confessor] but not everything. The words were: / am not only the Queen 
of Heaven, but also the Mother of Mercy and your Mother. And at that moment She 
stretched out her right hand, in which She was clasping her mantle, and She covered 
the priest with it. At that moment, the vision vanished. 

331 Oh, how great a grace it is to have a spiritual director! One makes more rapid 
progress in virtue, sees the will of God more clearly, fulfills it more faithfully, and 
follows a road that is sure and free of dangers. The director knows how to avoid the 



104 




rocks against which the soul could be shattered. The Lord gave me this grace rather 
late, to be sure, but I rejoice in it greatly, seeing how God inclines his will to my 
director’s wishes. I will mention just one incident out of a thousand that have 
happened to me. As I usually do, I asked the Lord Jesus one evening to give me the 
points for next day’s meditation. I received the answer: Meditate on the Prophet 
Jonah and his mission. I thanked the Lord, but began to think within myself of how 
different that subject was (140) from the others. But with all my soul I strove to 
meditate about it, and I recognized myself in the person of the prophet, in the sense 
that often I, too, try to make excuses to the Lord, claiming that someone else would do 
His holy will better [than I could], and not understanding that God can do all things and 
that His omnipotence will be all the more manifest if the tool is poorer. God made this 
clear to me in the following way. That afternoon, there was confession for the 
community. When I presented to the director of my soul the fear that seized me 
because of this mission for which God was using me, clumsy tool that I was, my 
spiritual father answered that, willing or not, we must carry out the will of God, and he 
gave me the Prophet Jonah as an example. After the confession, I wondered how the 
confessor knew that God had told me to meditate about Jonah; surely I myself had not 
told him. Then I heard these words: When the priest acts in My place, he does not 
act of himself, but I act through him. His wishes are Mine. I can see how Jesus 
defends His representatives. He himself enters into their actions. 

332 +Thursday. When I started the Holy Hour, I wanted to immerse myself in the agony of 
Jesus in the Garden of Olives. Then I heard a voice in my soul: Meditate on the 
mystery of the Incarnation. And suddenly the Infant Jesus appeared before me, 
radiant with beauty. He told me how much God is pleased with simplicity in a soul. 

Although My greatness is beyond understanding, I commune only with those 
who are little. I demand of you a childlike spirit. 

333 I now see clearly how God acts through the confessor and how faithfully He keeps His 
promises. Two weeks ago, my confessor told me to reflect upon this spiritual 
childhood. It was somewhat difficult at first, but my confessor, disregarding my 
difficulties, told me to continue to reflect upon spiritual childhood. “In practice, this 
spiritual childhood,” [he said,] “should manifest itself in this way: a child does not worry 
about the past or the future, but makes use of the present moment. I want to 
emphasize that spiritual childlikeness in you, Sister, and I place great stress upon it.” I 
can see how God bows down to my confessor’s wishes; He does not show Himself to 
me at this time as a Teacher in the fullness of His strength and human adulthood, but 
as a little Child. The God who is beyond all understanding stoops to me under the 
appearance of a little Child. 

334 But the eye of my soul does not stop at this appearance. Although You take the form 
of a little Child, I see in You the immortal, infinite Lord of lords, whom pure spirits 
adore, ( 141 ) day and night, and for whom the hearts of the Seraphim burn with the fire 
of purest love. O Christ, O Jesus, I want to surpass them in my love for You! I 
apologize to you, O pure spirits, for my boldness in comparing myself to you, I, this 
chasm of misery, this abyss of misery; and You, O God, who are the 
incomprehensible abyss of mercy, swallow me up as the heat of the sun swallows up 
a drop of dew! A loving look from You will fill up any abyss. I feel immensely happy at 
the greatness of God. Seeing God’s greatness is more than enough to make me 
happy throughout all eternity! 



105 




335 Once, when I saw Jesus in the form of a small child, I asked, “Jesus, why do you now 
take on the form of a child when You commune with me? In spite of this, I still see in 
You the infinite God, my Lord and Creator.” Jesus replied that until I learned simplicity 
and humility, He would commune with me as a little child. 

336 1934. During Holy Mass, when the Lord Jesus was exposed in the Blessed 
Sacrament, before Holy Communion, I saw two rays coming out from the Blessed 
Host, just as they are painted in the image, once of them red and the other pale. And 
they were reflected on each of the sisters and wards, but not on all in the same way. 
On some of them the rays were barely visible. It was the last day of the children’s 
retreat. 

337 November 22, 1934. +On one occasion, my spiritual director [Father Sopocko] told me 
to look carefully into myself and to examine whether I had any attachment to some 
particular object or creature, or even to myself, or whether I engaged in useless 
chatter, “for all these things,” [he said,] “get in the way of the Lord Jesus, who wants 
complete freedom in directing your soul. God is jealous of our hearts and wants us to 
love Him alone.” 

338 When I started to look deep within myself, I did not find any attachment to anything, 
but as in all things that concern me, so also in this matter, I was afraid and distrustful 
of myself. Tired out by this detailed self-examination, I went before the Blessed 
Sacrament and asked Jesus with all my heart, “Jesus, my Spouse, Treasure of my 
heart, (142) You know that I know You alone and that I have no other love but You; 
but, Jesus, if I were about to become attached to anything that is not You, I beg and 
entreat You, Jesus, by the power of Your mercy, let instant death descend upon me, 
for I prefer to die a thousand times than to be unfaithful to You once in even the 
smallest thing.” 

339 At that moment, Jesus suddenly stood before me, coming I know not from where, 
radiant with unbelievable beauty, clothed in a white garment, with uplifted arms, and 
He spoke these words to me, My daughter, your heart is My repose; it is My 
delight. I find in it everything that is refused Me by so many souls. Tell this to 
My representative. And an instant later, I saw nothing, but a whole ocean of 
consolations entered my soul. 

340 I know now that nothing can put a stop to my love for You, Jesus, neither suffering, 
nor adversity, nor fire nor the sword, nor death itself. I feel stronger than all these 
things. Nothing can compare with love. I see that the smallest things done by a soul 
that loves God sincerely have an enormous value in His Holy eyes. 

341 November 5, 1 934. One morning, when it was my duty to open the gate to let out our 
people who deliver baked goods, I entered the little chapel to visit Jesus for a minute 
and to renew the intentions of the day. Today, Jesus, I offer You all my sufferings, 
mortifications and prayers for the intentions of the Holy Father, so that he may 
approve the Feast of mercy. But, Jesus, I have one more word to say to You; I am 
very surprised that You bid me to talk about this Feast of mercy, for they tell me that 
there is already such a feast 81 and so why should I talk about it? And Jesus said to 
me, And who knows anything about this feast? No one! Even those who 



106 




should be proclaiming My mercy and teaching people about it often do not 
know about it themselves. That is why I want the image to be solemnly blessed 
on the first Sunday after Easter, and I want it to be venerated publicly so that 
every soul may know about it. 

342 ( 143 ) Suffering is the greatest treasure on earth; it purifies the soul. In suffering we 
learn who is our true friend. 

343 True love is measured by the thermometer of suffering. Jesus, I thank You for the 
little daily crosses, for opposition to my endeavors, for the hardships of communal life, 
for the misinterpretation of my intentions, for humiliations at the hands of others, for 
the harsh way in which we are treated, for false suspicions, for poor health and loss of 
strength, for self-denial, for dying to myself, for lack of recognition in everything, for the 
upsetting of all my plans. 

Thank You, Jesus, for interior sufferings, for dryness of spirit, for terrors, fears and 
incertitudes, for the darkness and the deep interior night, for temptations and various 
ordeals, for torments too difficult to describe, especially for those which no one will 
understand, for the hour of death with its fierce struggle and all its bitterness. 

I thank You, Jesus, You who first drank the cup of bitterness before You gave it to me, 
in a much milder form. I put my lips to this cup of Your holy will. Let all be done 
according to Your good pleasure; let that which Your wisdom ordained before the 
ages be done to me. I want to drink the cup to its last drop, and not seek to know the 
reason why. In bitterness is my joy, in hopelessness is my trust. In You, O Lord, all is 
good, all is a gift of Your paternal Heart. I do not prefer consolations over bitterness or 
bitterness over consolations, but thank You, O Jesus, for everything! It is my delight 
to fix my gaze upon You, O incomprehensible God! My spirit abides in these 
mysterious dwelling places, and there I am at home. I know very well the dwelling 
place of my Spouse. If feel there is not a single drop of blood in me that does not burn 
with love for You. 

O Uncreated Beauty, whoever comes to know You once cannot love anything else. I 
can feel the bottomless abyss of my soul, and nothing will fill it but God Himself. I feel 
that I am drowned in Him like a single grain of sand in a bottomless ocean. 

( 144 ) December 20, 

1934. 

344 One evening as I entered my cell, I saw the Lord Jesus exposed in the monstrance 
under the open sky, as it seemed. At the feet of Jesus I saw my confessor, and 
behind him a great number of the highest ranking ecclesiastics, clothed in vestments 
the like of which I had never seen except in this vision; and behind them, groups of 
religious from various orders; and further still I saw enormous crowds of people, which 
extended far beyond my vision. I saw the two rays coming out from the host, as in the 
image, closely united but not intermingled; and they passed through the hands of my 
confessor, and then through the hands of the clergy and from their hands to the 
people, and then they returned to the host.... And at that moment I saw myself once 
again in the cell which I had just entered. 



107 




345 December 22, 1934. When it was possible for me to go to confession during the 
week, I happened to get there when my confessor was saying Holy Mass. During the 
third part of the Mass, I saw the Infant Jesus, a little smaller than usual and with this 
difference, that He was wearing a violet tunic. He usually has a white one. 

346 December 24, 1 934. The Vigil of Christmas. During the morning Mass, I felt the 
closeness of God. Though I was hardly aware of it, my spirit was drowned in god. 
Suddenly, I heard these words: You are My delightful dwelling place; My Spirit 
rests in you. After these words, I felt the Lord looking into the depths of my heart; 
and seeing my misery, I humbled myself in spirit and admired the immense mercy of 
God, that the Most High Lord would approach such misery. 

During Holy Communion, joy filled my soul. I felt that I am closely united to the 
Godhead. His omnipotence enveloped my whole being. Throughout the whole day I 
felt the closeness of God in a special manner; and although my duties prevented me 
throughout the whole day from going to chapel even for a moment, there was not a 
moment when I was not united with God. I felt Him within (145) me more distinctly 
than ever. Unceasingly greeting the Mother of god and entering into Her spirit, I 
begged Her to teach me true love of God. And then I heard these words: / will share 
with you the secret of My happiness this night during Holy Mass. 

We had supper before six o’clock. Despite all the joy and the external noise 
accompanying the sharing of the wafer and the mutual exchange of good wishes, I did 
not for a moment lose the awareness of God’s presence. After supper, we hurried 
away to finish our work, and at nine I was able to go to the chapel for adoration. I was 
allowed to stay up and wait for the Midnight Mass. I was delighted to have free time 
from nine until midnight. From nine to ten o’clock I offered my adoration for my 
parents and my whole family. From ten to eleven, I offered it for the intention of my 
spiritual director, in the first place thanking God for granting me this great visible help 
here on earth, just as He had promised me, and I also asked God to grant him the 
necessary light so that he could get to know my soul and guide me according to God’s 
good pleasure. And from eleven to twelve I prayed for the Holy Church and the 
clergy, for sinners, for the missions, and for our houses. I offered the indulgences for 
the souls in purgatory. 

Twelve O’clock, December 25, 1934 

347 Midnight Mass. As Holy Mass began, I immediately felt a great interior recollection; 
joy filled my soul. During the offertory, I saw Jesus on the altar, incomparably 
beautiful. The whole time the Infant kept looking at everyone, stretching out his little 
hands. During the elevation, the Child was not looking towards the chapel but up to 
heaven. After the elevation, He looked at us again, but just for a short while, because 
He was broken up and eaten by the priest in the usual manner. His pinafore was now 
white. The next day I saw the same thing, and on the third day as well. It is difficult 
for me to express the joy of my soul. (145) The vision was repeated at the three 
Masses in the same was as in the first ones. 

1934. 



108 




348 The first Thursday after Christmas, I completely forgot it was Thursday and so did not 
make my adoration. At nine o’clock I went directly to the dormitory with the other 
sisters. But strangely enough, I could not fall asleep. It seemed to me that I had not 
yet done something that I was supposed to do. Mentally, I reviewed all my duties, and 
could not recollect anything. This lasted until ten o’clock. At ten, I saw the Sorrowful 
Face of Jesus. Then Jesus spoke these words to me: I have been waiting to share 
My suffering with you, for who can understand My suffering better than My 
spouse? I asked pardon of Jesus for my coldness. Ashamed and not daring to look 
at the Lord Jesus, but with a contrite heart, I asked Him to give me one thorn from His 
crown. He answered that He would grant me this favor, but not until tomorrow, and 
immediately the vision disappeared. 

349 In the morning, during meditation, I felt a painful thorn in the left side of my head. The 
suffering continued all day. I meditated continually about how Jesus had been able to 
endure the pain of so many thorns which made up His crown. I joined my suffering to 
the sufferings of Jesus and offered it for sinners. At four o’clock when I came for 
adoration, I saw one of our wards offending God greatly by sins of impure thoughts. I 
also saw a certain person who was the cause of her sin. My soul was pierced with 
fear, and I asked god, for the sake of Jesus’ pain, to snatch her from this terrible 
misery. 

350 Jesus answered that He would grant her that favor, not for her sake, but for the sake 
of my request. Now I understood how much we ought to pray for sinners, and 
especially for our wards. 

Our life is truly apostolic; I cannot imagine a religious living in one of our houses; that 
is, in our Community, and not having an apostolic spirit. Zeal for the salvation of souls 
should burn in our hearts. 

351 ( 147 ) O my God, how sweet it is to suffer for You, suffer in the most secret recesses 
of the heart, in the greatest hiddenness, to burn like a sacrifice noticed by no one, 
pure as crystal, with no consolation or compassion. My spirit burns in active love. I 
waste no time in dreaming. I take every moment singly as it comes, for this is within 
my power. The past does not belong to me; the future is not mine; with all my soul I 
try to make use of the present moment. 

January 4, 1935. The first chapter 82 of Mother Borgia. 83 

352 At the chapter, Mother [Borgia] stressed a life of faith and fidelity in small things. Half 
way through the chapter, I heard these words: I desire that you would all have 
more faith at the present time. How great is My joy at the faithfulness of My 
spouse in the smallest things. Then I looked at the crucifix and saw that Jesus’ 
head was turned towards the refectory, and His lips were moving. 

When I told Mother Superior about it, she answered, “You see, Sister, how Jesus 
demands that our life be a life of faith.” 

353 When Mother left for the chapel and I stayed to set the room in order, I heard these 
words: Tell all the sisters that I demand that they live in the spirit of faith towards 



109 




the superiors at this present time. I begged my confessor to release me from this 
duty. 



354 As I was talking to a certain person 84 who was to paint the image but, for certain 
reasons, was not painting it, I heard this voice in my soul: I want her to be more 
obedient. I understood that our efforts, no matter how great, are not pleasing to god if 
they do not bear the seal of obedience; I am speaking about a religious soul. O God, 
how easy it is to know Your will in the convent! We religious have God’s will set 
clearly before our eyes from morning till night, and in moments of uncertainty we have 
our superiors through whom God speaks. 

355 ( 148 ) 1934-1935. New Year’s Eve. I was given permission not to go to sleep, but 
rather pray in the chapel. One of the sisters had asked me to offer an hour of 
adoration for her. I said yes, and prayed for her for an hour. During the hour, God 
gave me to understand how very pleasing this soul was to Him. 

I offered the second hour of adoration for the conversion of sinners, and I tried 
especially to offer expiation to God for the insults that were being committed against 
Him at this present moment. How greatly God is being offended! 

I offered the third hour for my spiritual director. I fervently prayed for a light for him in 
a particular matter. 

Finally, the clock struck twelve, the last hour of the year. I finished it in the name of 
the Holy Trinity, and I also started the first hour of the New Year in the Name of the 
Holy Trinity. I asked each of the Three Persons to bless me and, with great 
confidence, looked toward the New Year which certainly would not be sparing of 
suffering. 

356 O Blessed Host, in whom is contained the testament of God’s mercy for us, and 
especially for poor sinners. 

O Blessed Host, in whom is contained the Body and Blood of the Lord Jesus as proof 
of infinite mercy for us, and especially for poor sinners. 

O Blessed Host, in whom is contained life eternal and of infinite mercy, dispensed in 
abundance to us and especially to poor sinners. 

O Blessed Host, in whom is contained the mercy of the Father, the Son, and the Holy 
Spirit toward us, and especially toward poor sinners. 

( 149 ) O Blessed Host, in whom is contained the infinite price of mercy which will 
compensate for all our debts, and especially those of poor sinners. 

O Blessed Host, in whom is contained the fountain of living water which springs from 
infinite mercy for us, and especially for poor sinners. 

O Blessed Host, in whom is contained the fire of purest love which blazes forth from 
the bosom of the Eternal Father, as from an abyss of infinite mercy for us, and 
especially for poor sinners. 



110 




O Blessed Host, in whom is contained the medicine for all our infirmities, flowing from 
infinite mercy, as from a fount, for us and especially for poor sinners. 

O Blessed Host, in whom is contained the union between God and us through His 
infinite mercy for us, and especially for poor sinners. 

O Blessed Host, in whom are contained all the sentiments of the most sweet Heart of 
Jesus toward us, and especially poor sinners. 

O Blessed Host, our only hope in all the sufferings and adversities of life. 

O Blessed Host, our only hope in the midst of darkness and of storms within and 
without. 

O Blessed Host, our only hope in life and at the hour of our death. 

O Blessed Host, our only hope in the midst of adversities and floods of despair. 

O Blessed Host, our only hope in the midst of falsehood and treason. 

O Blessed Host, our only hope in the midst of the darkness and godlessness which 
inundate the earth. 

O Blessed Host, our only hope in the longing and pain in which no one will understand 
us. 

( 150 ) O Blessed Host, our only hope in the toil and monotony of everyday life. 

O Blessed Host, our only hope amid the ruin of our hopes and endeavors. 

O Blessed Host, our only hope in the midst of the ravages of the enemy and the 
efforts of hell. 

O Blessed Host, I trust in You w3hen the burdens are beyond my strength and I find 
my efforts are fruitless. 

O Blessed Host, I trust in You when storms toss my heart about and my fearful spirit 
tends to despair. 

O Blessed Host, I trust in You when my heart is about to tremble and mortal sweat 
moistens my brow. 

O Blessed Host, I trust in You when everything conspires against me and black 
despair creeps into my soul. 

O Blessed Host, I trust in You when my eyes will begin to grow dim to all temporal 
things and, for the first time, my spirit will behold the unknown worlds. 



Ill 




O Blessed Host, I trust in You when my tasks will be beyond my strength and 
adversity will become my daily lot. 

O Blessed Host I trust in You when the practice of virtue will appear difficult for me 
and my nature will grow rebellious. 

O Blessed Host, I trust in You when hostile blows will be aimed against me. 

O Blessed Host, I trust in You when my toils and efforts will be misjudged by others. 

O Blessed Host, I trust in You when Your judgments will resound over me; it is then 
that I will trust in the sea of Your mercy. 

357 +Most Holy Trinity, I trust in Your infinite mercy. God is my Father and so I, His child, 
have every claim to His divine Heart; and the greater the darkness, the more complete 
our trust should be. 

358 I do not understand how it is possible not to trust in Him who can do all things. With 
Him, everyhing; without Him, nothing. He is Lord. He will not allow those who have 
placed all their trust in Him to be put to shame. 

359 ( 151 ) January 10, 1935. +Thursday. In the evening during benediction, 85 such 
thoughts as these began to distress me: Is not perhaps all this that I am saying about 

God’s great mercy just a lie or an illusion ? And I wanted to think about this for a 

while, when I heard a strong and clear inner voice saying, Everything that you say 
about My goodness is true; language has no adequate expression to extol My 
goodness. These words were so filled with power and so clear that I would give my 
life in declaring they came from god. I can tell this by the profound peace that 
accompanied them at that time and that still remains with me. This peace gives me 
such great strength and power that all difficulties, adversities, sufferings, and death 
itself are as nothing. This light gave me a glimpse of the truth that all my efforts to 
bring souls to know the mercy of the Lord are very pleasing to God. And from this 
springs such great joy in my soul that I do not know whether it could be any grater in 
heaven. Oh, if souls would only be willing to listen, at least a little, to the voice of 
conscience and the voice - that is, the inspirations - of the Holy Spirit! I say “at least 
a little,” because once we open ourselves to the influence of the Holy Spirit, He 
Himself will fulfill what is lacking in us. 

+New Year 1935 

360 Jesus likes to intervene in the smallest details of our life, and He often fulfills secret 
wishes of mine that I sometimes hide from Him, although I know that from Him nothing 
can be hidden. 

There is a custom among us of drawing by lot, on New Year’s Day, special Patrons for 
ourselves for the whole year. In the morning during meditation, there arose within me 
a secret desire that the Eucharistic Jesus be my special Patron for this year also, as in 
the past. But, hiding this desire from my Beloved, I spoke to Him about everything 
else but that. When we came to refectory for breakfast, we blessed ourselves and 
began drawing our patrons. When I approached the holy cards on which the names of 



112 




the patrons were written, without hesitation I took one, but I didn’t read the name 
immediately (152) as I wanted to mortify myself for a few minutes. Suddenly, I heard 
a voice in my soul: I am your patron. Read. I looked at once at the inscription and 
read, “Patron for the Year 1935 - the Most Blessed Eucharist.” My heart leapt with 
joy, and I slipped quietly away from the sisters and went for a short visit before the 
Blessed Sacrament, where I poured out my heart. But Jesus sweetly admonished me 
that I should be, at that moment, together with the sisters. I went immediately in 
obedience to the rule. 



Holy Trinity, One God, 

361 incomprehensible in the greatness of Your mercy for creatures, and especially for poor 
sinners, You have made known the abyss of Yours mercy, incomprehensible and 
unfathomable [as it is] to any mind, whether of man or angel. Our nothingness and 
our misery are drowned in Your greatness. O infinite goodness, who can ever praise 
You sufficiently? Can there be found a soul that understand You in Your love? O 
Jesus, there are such souls, but they are few. 

362 +One day, during the morning meditation, I heard this voice: I Myself am your 
Director; I was, I am, and I will be. And since you asked for visible help, I chose 
and gave you a director even before you had asked, for My work required this. 
Know that the faults you commit against him wound My Heart. Be especially on 
your guard against self-willfulness; even the smallest thing should bear the seal 
of obedience. 

With a crushed and humbled heart, I begged forgiveness of Jesus for these faults. I 
also begged pardon of my spiritual director and resolved to do nothing rather than to 
do many things wrongly. 

363 O good Jesus, thank You for the great grace of making known to me what I am of 
myself: misery and sin, and nothing more. I can do only one thing of myself, and that 
is to offend You, O my God, because misery can do no more of itself than offend You, 
O infinite Goodness! 

364 (153) +Once I was asked to pray for a certain soul. I decided at once to make a 
novena to the Merciful Lord to which I added a mortification; namely, that I would wear 
chains 86 on both legs throughout Holy Mass. I had been doing this already for three 
days when I went to confession and told my spiritual director that I had undertaken this 
mortification, presuming permission to do so. I had thought he would not object, but I 
heard the contrary; that is, that I should do nothing without permission. O my Jesus, 
so it was willfulness again! But my falls do not discourage me; I know very well that I 
am misery [itself]. It was because of the condition of my health that I did not receive 
this permission, and my spiritual director was surprised that I had been allowing 
myself greater mortifications without his permission. I asked pardon for my self- 
willfulness, or rather for having presumed permission, and I asked him to change this 
mortification for another one. 

365 My spiritual director replaced it with an interior mortification; namely, throughout Holy 
Mass I was to meditate on why the Lord Jesus had submitted to being baptized. The 
meditation was no mortifications for me, for thinking about God is a delight and not 



113 




mortification; but there was a mortification of the will in that I was not doing [simply] 
what I like, but what I was told to do, and it is in this that interior mortification consists. 
When I left the confessional and started to recite my penance, I heard these words: I 

have granted the grace you asked for on behalf of that soul, but not because of 
the mortification you chose for yourself, but because of the act of complete 
obedience to My representative did I grant grace to that soul for whom you 
interceded and begged mercy. Know that when you mortify your own self-will, 
then Mine reigns within you. 

366 O my Jesus, be patient with me. I will be more careful in the future. I will rely, not 
upon myself, but upon Your grace and Your very great goodness to miserable me. 

367 (154) +On one occasion, Jesus gave me to know that when I pray for intentions which 
people are wont to entrust to me, He is always ready to grant His graces, but souls do 
not always want to accept them: My Heart overflows with great mercy for souls, 
and especially for poor sinners. If only they could understand that I am the best 
of Fathers to them and that it is for them that the Blood and Water flowed from 
My Heart as from a fount overflowing with mercy. For them I dwell in the 
tabernacle as King of Mercy. I desire to bestow My graces upon souls, but they 
do not want to accept them. You, at least, come to Me as often as possible and 
take these graces they do not want to accept. In this way you will console My 
Heart. Oh, how indifferent are souls to so much goodness, to so many proofs of 
love! My Heart drinks only of the ingratitude and forgetfulness of souls living in 
the world. They have time for everything, but they have no time to come to Me 
for graces. 

So I turn to you, you - chosen souls, will you also fail to understand the love of 
My Heart? Here, too, My Heart finds disappointment; I do not find complete 
surrender to My love. So many reservations, so much distrust, so much 
caution. To comfort you, let Me tell you that there are souls living in the world 
who love Me dearly. I dwell in their hearts with delight. But they are few. In 
convents too, there are souls that fill My Heart with joy. They bear My features; 
therefore the Heavenly Father looks upon them with special pleasure. They will 
be a marvel to Angels and men. Their number is very small. They are a defense 
for the world before the justice of the Heavenly Father and a means of obtaining 
mercy for the world. The love and sacrifice of these souls sustain the world in 
existence. The infidelity of a soul especially chosen by Me wounds My Heart 
most painfully. Such infidelities are swords which pierce My Heart. 

368 (155) January 29, 1935. This Tuesday morning during meditation, I had an interior 
vision of the Holy Father saying Mass. After the Pater Noster, he talked to Jesus 
about that matter which Jesus had ordered me to tell him. Although I have not spoken 
to the Holy Father personally, this matter was taken care of by someone else [Father 
Sopocko 8 "]; at this moment, however, I knew by interior knowledge that the Holy 
Father was considering this matter, which will soon come to pass in accordance with 
the desires of Jesus. 

369 Before the eight-day retreat, I went to my spiritual director and asked him for certain 
mortifications for the time of the retreat. However, I did not receive permission for 
everything I asked for, but for some things only. I received permission for one hour of 



114 




meditation on the Passion of the Lord Jesus and for a certain humiliation. But I was a 
little dissatisfied at not receiving permission for everything I had asked. When we 
returned home, I dropped into the chapel for a moment, and then I heard this voice in 
my soul: There is more merit to one hour of meditation on My sorrowful Passion 
than there is to a whole year of flagellation that draws blood; the contemplation 
of My painful wounds is of great profit to you, and it brings Me great joy. I am 
surprised that you still have not completely renounced your self-will, but I 
rejoice exceedingly that this change will be accomplished during the retreat. 

370 That same day, when I was in church waiting for confession, I saw the same rays 
issuing from the monstrance and spreading throughout the church. This lasted all 
through the service. After the Benediction, [the rays shone out] to both sides and 
returned again to the monstrance. Their appearance was bright and transparent like 
crystal. I asked Jesus that He deign to light the fire of His love in all souls that were 
cold. Beneath these rays a heart will grow warm even if it were like a block of ice; 
even if it were hard as a rock, it will crumble into dust. 

+ 

(156) J.M.J. Vilnius, February 4, 

1935 

Eight-day retreat. 

371 Jesus, King of Mercy, again the time has come when I am alone with You. Therefore I 
beg You, by all the love with which Your Heart burns, to destroy completely within me 
my self-love and, on the other hand, to enkindle in my heart the fire of Your purest 
love. 

372 In the evening, after the conference, I heard these words” I am with you. During 
this retreat, I will strengthen you in peace and in courage so that your strength 
will not fail in carrying out My designs. Therefore, you will cancel out your will 
absolutely in this retreat and, instead, My complete will shall be accomplished 
in you. Know that it will cost you much, so write these words on a clean sheet 
of paper: “From today on, my own will does not exist,” and the cross out the 
page. And on the other side write these words: “From today on, I do the will of 
God everywhere, always, and in everything.” Be afraid of nothing; love will give 
you strength and make the realization of this easy. 

373 In the fundamental meditation about the goal; that is, of choosing love: the soul must 
love; it has need of living. The soul must divert the stream of its love, but not into the 
mud or into a vacuum, but into God. How I rejoice when I reflect on this, for I feel 
clearly that He Himself is in my heart. Just Jesus alone! I love creatures insofar as 
they help me to become united with God. I love all people because I see the image of 
God in them. 



115 




Vilnius, February 4, 1935 



+ 

374 ( 157 ) J.M.J. 



From today on, my own will does not exist. 



The moment I knelt down to cross out my own will, as the Lord had bid me to do, I heard this 
voice in my soul: From today on, do not fear God’s judgment, for you will not be 
judged. 

116 




Vilnius, February 4, 1935 



+ 

(158) J. M. J. 



From today on, I do the Will of God 
Everywhere, always, and in everything. 88 



117 




Vilnius, February 8, 



+ 

(159) J.M.J. 

1935 

375 Particular interior practice; that is, the examination of conscience. Self-denial of my 
own 
will. 



I. The denial of my reason. Subjecting it to the reason of those who represent 
God God to Me here on earth. 

II The denial of my will. Doing the will of God, which is revealed in the will of 
those who represent God to me and which is contained in the rule of our 
order. 

III The denial of my judgment. Accepting immediately and without reflection, 
analysis or reasoning all orders given by those who represent God to me. 

IV. The denial of my tongue. I will not give it the least bit of freedom; but in one 
case only I will give it complete freedom; that is, in proclaiming the glory of God. 
Whenever I receive Holy Communion, I will ask Jesus to fortify and cleanse my 
tongue that I may not injure my neighbor with it. That is why I have the greatest 
respect for the rule which speaks about silence. 

376 My Jesus, I trust that Your grace will help me to carry out these resolutions. 
Although the above points are contained in the vow of obedience. I want to 
practice these things in a special way, because this is the essence of the 
religious life. Merciful Jesus, I beg You fervently to enlighten my mind so that I 
may come to know You better, You who are the Infinite Being, and that I may 
get to know myself better, who am nothingness itself. 

377 (160) Concerning Holy Confession. We should derive two kinds of profit from 
Holy Confession: 

1 . We come to confession to be healed; 

2. We come to be educated - like a small child, our soul has constant need of 
education. 

O my Jesus, I understand these words to their very depths, and I know from my 
own experience that, on its own strength, the soul will not go far; it will exert 
itself greatly and will do nothing for the glory of God; it will err continually, 
because our mind is darkened and does not know how to discern its own 
affairs. I shall pay special attention to two things: firstly, I will choose, in 
making my confession, that which humiliates me most, even if it be a trifle, but 
something that costs me much, and for that reason I will tell it; secondly, I will 
practice contrition, not only during confession, but during every self- 
examination, and I will arouse within myself an act of perfect contrition, 
especially when I am going to bed. One more word: a soul which sincerely 



118 




wants to advance in perfection must observe strictly the advice given by the 
spiritual director. There is as much holiness as there is dependence. 

378 Once, as I was talking with my spiritual director, I had an interior vision - 
quicker than lightning - of his soul in great suffering, in such agony that God 
touches very few souls with such fire. The suffering arises from this work. 

There will come a time when this work, which God is demanding so very much, 
will be as though utterly undone. And then God will act with great power, which 
will give evidence of its authenticity. It will be a new splendor for the Church, 
although it has been dormant in it from long ago. That God is infinitely merciful, 
no one can deny. He desires everyone to know this before He comes again as 
Judge. He wants souls to come to know Him first as King of mercy. When this 
triumph comes, we shall already have entered the new life in which there is no 
suffering. But before this, your soul [of the spiritual director] will be surfeited 
with bitterness at the sight of the destruction of your efforts. However, this will 
only appear to be so, because what God has once decided upon, He does not 
change. But although this destruction ( 161 ) will be such only in outward 
appearance, the suffering will be real. When will this happen? I do not know. 
How long will it last? I do not know. 89 But God has promised a great grace 
especially to you and to all those . . . who will proclaim My great mercy. I 
shall protect them Myself at the hour of death, as My own glory. And 
even if the sins of souls were as dark as night, when the sinner turns to 
My mercy, he gives Me the greatest praise and is the glory of My Passion. 
When a soul extols My goodness, Satan trembles before it and flees to 
the very bottom of hell. 

379 During one of the adorations, Jesus promised me that: With souls that have 
recourse to My mercy and with those that glorify and proclaim My great 
mercy to others, I will deal according to My infinite mercy at the hour of 
their death. 

My Heart is sorrowful, Jesus said, because even chosen souls do not 
understand the greatness of My mercy. Their relationship [with Me] is, in 
certain ways, imbued with mistrust. Oh, how much that wounds My 
Heart! Remember My Passion, and if you do not believe My words, at 
least believe My wounds. 

380 I make no movement, no gesture after my own liking, because I am bound by 
grace; I always consider what is more pleasing to Jesus. 

381 When meditating once on obedience, I heard these words: In this meditation, 
the priest 90 is speaking particularly for you. Know that I am borrowing his 
lips. I tried to listen most attentively to everything and to apply everything to 
my own heart, as in every meditation. When the priest said that an obedient 

soul was filled with the power of God Yes, when you are obedient I take 

away your weakness and replace it with My strength. I am very surprised 
that souls do not want to make that exchange with Me. I said to the Lord, 
“Jesus, enlighten my heart, or else I, too, will not understand much from these 
words.” 



119 




382 



(162) I know that I live, not for myself, but for a great number of souls. I know 
that graces granted me are not for me alone, but for souls. O Jesus, the abyss 
of Your mercy has been poured into my soul, which is an abyss of misery itself. 
Thank You, Jesus, for the graces and the pieces of the cross which You give 
me at each moment of my life. 

383 At the beginning of the retreat, I saw, on the ceiling of the chapel, Jesus nailed to 
the Cross. He was looking at the sisters with great love, but not at all of them. 
There were three sisters at whom Jesus looked severely, for what reasons I do not 
know. I only know what a terrible thing it is to meet with such a look, which is the 
look of a severe Judge. That look was not directed at me, and yet I was paralyzed 
with terror. I still tremble as I write these words. I did not dare to say so much as a 
single word to Jesus. My physical strength failed me, and I thought I would not live 
to the end of the conference. The next day, I saw the same thing again, just as I 
had seen it the first time, and this time I dared to speak these words: “Jesus, how 
great is Your mercy!” 

On the third day, that gaze of great kindness upon all the sisters, except the three, 
was again repeated. I gathered up my courage, which drew its force from love of 
neighbor, and I said to the Lord, “You, who are Mercy Itself, as You Yourself told 
me, I beg You by the power of Your mercy, to look then with kindness at these 
three sisters as well. And if this is not in accord with Your wisdom, I ask You for an 
exchange: turn to them the kind look meant for my soul, and let Your severe gaze 
at their souls be turned on me.” Jesus then said to me these words: My 
daughter, for the sake of your sincere and generous love, I grant them many 
graces although they are not asking Me for them. But I am doing so because 
of the promise I have made to you. And at that moment, He turned a merciful 
look towards those three sisters as well. My heart leapt with joy to see the 
goodness of God. 

384 (163) When I stayed for adoration from nine to ten o’clock, four other sisters 
stayed, too. When I approached the altar and began to meditate on the Passion of 
the Lord Jesus, a terrible pain immediately filled my soul because of the ingratitude 
of so many souls living in the world; but particularly painful was the ingratitude of 
souls especially chosen by God. There is no notion or comparison [which can 
describe it]. At the sight of this blackest ungratefulness I felt as though my heart 
were torn open; my strength failed me completely, and I fell on my face, not 
attempting to hide my loud cries. Each time I thought of God’s great mercy and of 
the ingratitude of souls, pain stabbed at my heart, and I understood how painfully it 
wounded the sweetest Heart of Jesus. With a burning heart, I renewed my act of 
self-oblation on behalf of sinners. 

385 With joy and longing, I have pressed my lips to the bitterness of the cup which I 
receive each day at Holy Mass. It is the share which Jesus has allotted to me for 
each moment, and I will not relinquish it to anyone. I will comfort the most sweet 
Eucharistic Heart continuously and will play harmonious melodies on the strings of 
my heart. Suffering is the most harmonious melody of all. I will assiduously 
search out that which will make Your Heart rejoice today! 



120 




The days of my life are not monotonous. When dark clouds cover the sun, like the 
eagle I will try to brave the billows and make known to others that the sun is not 
dying out. 

386 I feel that God will let me draw aside the veils [of heaven] so that the earth will not 
doubt His goodness. God is not subject to eclipse or change. He is forever one 
and the same; nothing can contradict His will. I feel within myself a power greater 
than human. I feel courage and strength thanks to the grace that dwells in me. I 
understand souls who are suffering against hope, for I have gone through that fire 
myself. But God will not give [us anything] beyond our strength. Often have I lived 
hoping against hope, and have advanced my hope to complete trust in God. Let 
that which He has ordained from all ages happen to me. 

(164) A general principle. 

387 It would be a very ugly thing for a religious to seek relief from suffering. 

388 See what grace and reflection made out of the greatest criminal. He who is dying 
has much love: “Remember me when You are in paradise.” Heartfelt repentance 
immediately transforms the soul. The spiritual life is to be lived earnestly and 
sincerely. 

389 Love must be reciprocal. If Jesus tasted the fullness of bitterness for me, then I, 

His bride, will accept all bitterness as proof of my love for Him. 

390 He who knows how to forgive prepares for himself many graces from God. As 
often as I look upon the cross, so often will I forgive with all my heart. 

391 Through Holy Baptism, we entered into union with other souls. Death tightens the 
bonds of love. I ought always to be of help to others. If I am a good religious, I will 
be useful, not only to the Order, but to the whole Country as well. 

392 The Lord God grants His graces in two ways: by inspiration and by enlightenment. 
If we ask God for a grace, He will give it to us; but let us be willing to accept it. And 
in order to accept it, self-denial is needed. Love does not consist in words or 
feelings, but in deeds. It is an act of the will; it is a gift; that is to say, a giving. The 
reason, the will, the heart - these three faculties must be exercised during prayer. 

I will rise from the dead in Jesus, but first I must live in Him. If I do not separate 
myself from the Cross, then the Gospel will be revealed in me. Jesus in me makes 
up for all my deficiencies. His grace operates without ceasing. The Holy Trinity 
grants me Its life abundantly, by the gift of the Holy Spirit. The Three Divine 
Persons live in me. When God loves, He loves with all His Being, with all the 
power of His Being. If God has loved me in this way, how should I respond - I, His 
spouse? 

393 (165) During one conference, Jesus said to me, You are a sweet grape in a 
chosen cluster; I want others to have a share in the juice that is flowing 
within you. 



121 




394 During the renewal of the vows, 91 I saw the Lord Jesus on the Epistle side [of the 
altar], wearing a white garment with a golden belt and holding a terrible sword in 
His hand. This lasted until the moment when the sisters began to renew their 
vows. Then I saw resplendence beyond compare and, in front of this brilliance, a 
white cloud in the shape of a scale. Then Jesus approached and put the sword on 
one side of the scale, and it fell heavily towards the ground until it was about to 
touch it. Just then, the sisters finished renewing their vows. Then I saw Angels 
who took something from each of the sisters and placed it in a golden vessel 
somewhat in the shape of a thurible. When they had collected it from all the sisters 
and placed the vessel on the other side of the scale, it immediately outweighed 
and raised up the side on which the sword had been laid. At that moment, a flame 
issued forth from the thurible, and it reached all the way to the brilliance. Then I 
heard a voice coming from the brilliance: Put the sword back in its place; the 
sacrifice is greater. Then Jesus gave us His blessing, and all I had seen 
vanished. The sisters had already begun to receive Holy Communion. When I 
received Holy Communion, my soul was filled with such great joy that I am unable 
to describe it. 

395 [February] 1 5, 1 935. A visit for a few days to my family home 92 to see my dying 
mother. 

When I learned that my mother was seriously ill and near death, and that she had 
asked that I come home, as she wanted to see me once more before dying, a host 
of emotions were awakened in my heart. As a child who sincerely loves its mother, 
I wanted very much to fulfill her wish. But I left this to God and resigned myself 
completely to His will. Paying no heed to the ache in my heart, I followed God’s 
will. On the morning of my name day, February fifteen, ( 166 ) Mother Superior 
gave me a second letter from my family and granted me permission to go to my 
parents’ home to fulfill the wish and request of my dying mother. I began at once 
to make the necessary preparations for the journey and left Vilnius in the evening. 

I offered the whole night for my seriously ill mother, that God might grant her the 
grace of losing none of the merits of her suffering. 

396 My traveling companions were very kind; several women of the Sodality of Mary 
were in the same compartment with me. I sensed that one of them was suffering 
greatly and fighting a difficult battle in her soul. I began to pray in spirit for this 
soul. At eleven o’clock these women went to another compartment for a chat, 
leaving only the two of us behind in the carriage. I could feel that my prayer was 
causing this soul’s struggle to become even fiercer. I did not console her, but 
prayed all the more fervently. Finally, the lady turned to me and asked if she was 
obliged to fulfill a certain promise which she had made to God. At that moment, I 
received inner knowledge of the promise and replied, “You are absolutely obliged 
to keep it, or else you will be miserable for the rest of your life. This thought will 
pursue you everywhere and give you no peace.” Surprised at my answer, she 
opened her soul to me. 

She was a schoolteacher. When she was about to take her examinations, she had 
promised God that if she did well in her examinations she would devote herself to 
His service; that is, enter a religious congregation. She passed the examinations 
very well. “But,” she said, “when I entered into the hustle and bustle of the world, I 



122 




no longer wanted to enter a convent. However, my conscience has given me no 
peace, and despite amusements I am always unhappy.” 

After a lengthy conversation, she was completely changed and told me that she 
would immediately take steps to enter a convent. She asked me to pray for her, 
and I felt that God would be generous with His grace. 

397 That morning I arrived in Warsaw, and at eight o’clock that evening I was already 
at home. What a joy it was for my parents and for the whole family! It is difficult to 
describe it. ( 167 ) My mother’s health had improved a bit, but the doctor gave no 
hope of complete recovery. After greeting each other, we knelt down to thank God 
for the grace of being able to be together once again in this life. 

398 When I saw how my father prayed, I was very much ashamed that, after so many 
years in the convent, I was not able to pray with such sincerity and fervor. And so I 
never cease thanking God for such parents. 

399 Oh, how everything had changed beyond recognition during those ten years! The 
garden had been so small, and now I could not recognize it. My brothers and 
sisters had still been children, and now they were all grown up. I was surprised 
that I did not find them as they had been when we parted. Stanley accompanied 
me to church every day. I felt that he was very pleasing to God. 

400 On the last day, when everyone had left the church, I went before the Blessed 
Sacrament with him, and together we recited the Te Deum. After a moment of 
silence, I offered his soul to the Sweetest Heart of Jesus. How easy it was to pray 
in that little church! I remembered all the graces that I had received there, and 
which I had not understood at the time and had so often abused. I wondered how I 
could have been so blind. And as I was thus regretting my blindness, I suddenly 
saw the Lord Jesus, radiant wish unspeakable beauty, and He said to me with 
kindness, My chosen one, I will give you even greater graces that you may be 
the witness of My infinite mercy throughout all eternity. 

401 The days at home passed in much company, as everybody wanted to se me and 
talk with me. Often I could count as many as twenty-five people there. They 
listened with great interest to my accounts of the lives of the saints. It seemed to 
me that our house was truly the house of God, as each evening we talked about 
nothing but God. When, tired from these talks and yearning for solitude and 
silence, I quietly slipped out into the garden in the evening so I could converse with 
God alone, even in this I was unsuccessful; immediately my brothers and sisters 
came and took me into the house and, once again, I had to talk, with all those eyes 
fixed on me. ( 168 ) But I struck on one way of getting some respite; I asked my 
brothers to sing for me, inasmuch as they had lovely voices; and besides, one 
played the violin and another, the mandolin. And during this time I was able to 
devote myself to interior prayer without shunning their company. 

What also cost me a lot was that I had to kiss the children. The women I knew 
came with their children and asked me to take them in my arms, at least for a 
moment, and kiss them. They regarded this as a great favor, and for me it was a 
chance to practice virtue, since many of the children were quite dirty. But in order 



123 




to overcome my feelings and show no repugnance, I would kiss such a dirty child 
twice. Once of these friends came with a child whose eyes were diseased and 
filled with pus, and she said to me, “Sister, take it in your arms for a moment, 
please.” My nature recoiled, but not paying attention to anything, I took the child 
and kissed it twice, right on the infection, asking God to heal it. 

I had many opportunities to practice virtue. I listened to people pour out their 
grievances, and I saw that no heart was joyful, because no heart truly loved God; 
and this did not surprise me at all. I was very sorry not to have seen two of my 
sisters. I felt interiorly that their souls were in great danger. Pain gripped my heart 
at the thought of them. Once, when I felt very close to God, I fervently asked the 
Lord to grant them grace, and the Lord answered me, I am granting them not 
only necessary graces, but special graces as well. I understood that the Lord 
would call them to a greater union with Him. I rejoice immensely that such great 
love reigns in our family. 

402 As I was taking leave of my parents and asking for their blessing, I felt the power of 
the grace of God being poured out upon my soul. My father, my mother and my 
godmother blessed me with tears in their eyes, wishes me the greatest faithfulness 
to God’s graces, and begged me never to forget how many graces God had 
granted me in calling me to the religious life. They asked me to pray for them. 
(169) Although everyone was crying, I did not shed a single tear; I tried to be brave 
and comforted them as best I could, reminding them of heaven where there would 
be no more parting. Stanley walked me to the car. I told him how much God loves 
pure souls and assured him God was satisfied with him. When I was telling him 
about the goodness of god and of how He thinks of us, he burst out crying like a 
little child, and I was not surprised, for this was a pure soul and, as such, more 
capable of recognizing God. 

403 Once I was in the car, I let my heart have its way, and I, too, cried like a baby, for 
joy that God was granting our family so many graces, and I became steeped in a 
prayer of thanksgiving. 

By evening I was already in Warsaw. Firstly, I greeted the Lord of the house 
[Jesus in the Eucharist], and then I went to greet the whole community. 

404 When I entered the chapel to say goodnight to the Lord before retiring, and 
apologized for having talked so little to Him when I was at home, I heard a voice 
within my soul, I am very pleased that you had not been talking with Me, but 
were making My goodness known to souls and rousing them to love Me. 

405 Mother Superior [Mary Joseph] said to me, “We are both going to Jozefinek 
tomorrow, Sister, and you will have chance to talk with Mother General [Michael].” 

I was delighted. Mother General was ever the same, full of goodness, peace and 
the Spirit of God. I had a long talk with her. We attended the afternoon service. 
The Litany of the Sacred Heart of Jesus was sung. The Lord Jesus was exposed 
in the monstrance. 

406 After a short while, I saw the little Jesus, who came out from the Host and rested in 
my hands. This lasted for a moment; immense joy flooded my soul. The Child 



124 




Jesus had the same appearance as He had the time we entered the Chapel with 
Mother Superior - my former Directress, Mary Joseph. The next day I was already 
back in my beloved Vilnius. 

407 Oh, how happy I felt to be back in our convent! I felt as though I was entering the 
convent for the second time. I took unending delight in the silence and peace in 
which the soul can so easily immerse itself in God, helped by everyone and 
disturbed by no one. 

( 170 ) The Great Lent 

408 When I become immersed in the Lord’s Passion, I often see the Lord Jesus, during 
adoration, in this manner: after the scourging, the torturers took the Lord and 
stripped Him of His own garment, which had already adhered to the wounds; as 
they took it off, His wounds reopened; then they threw a dirty and tattered scarlet 
cloak over the fresh wounds of the Lord. The cloak, in some places, barely 
reached His knees. They made Him sit on a piece of beam. And then they wove a 
crown of thorns, which they put on His sacred head. They put a reed in His hand 
and made fun of Him, bowing to Him as to a king. Some spat in His face, while 
others took the reed and struck Him on the head with it. Others caused him pain 
by slapping Him; still others covered His face and struck Him with their fists. Jesus 
bore all this with meekness. Who can comprehend Him - comprehend His 
suffering? Jesus’ eyes were downcast. I sensed what was happening in the most 
sweet Heart of Jesus at that time. Let every soul reflect on what Jesus was 
suffering at that moment. They tried to outdo each other in insulting the Lord. I 
reflected: Where does such malice in man come from? It is caused by sin. Love 
and sin have met. 

409 When I was attending Mass in a certain church with another sister, I felt the 
greatness and majesty of God; I felt the church was permeated by God. His 
majesty enveloped me and, though it terrified me, it filled me with peace and joy. I 
knew that nothing could oppose His will. Oh, if only all souls knew who is living in 
our churches, there would not be so many outrages and so much disrespect in 
these holy places! 

410 O eternal and incomprehensible Love, I beg You for one grace: enlighten my mind 
with light from on high; help me to know and appreciate all things according to their 
value. I feel the greatest joy in my soul when I come to know the truth. 

411 ( 171 ) March 21 , 1935. Often during Mass, I see the Lord in my soul; I feel His 
presence which pervades my being. I sense His divine gaze; I have long talks with 
Him without saying a word; I know what His divine Heart desires, and I always do 
what will please Him the most. I love Him to distraction, and I feel that I am being 
loved by God. At those times, when I meet with God deep within myself, I feel so 
happy that I do not know how to express it. Such moments are short, for the soul 
could not bear it for long, as separation from the body would be inevitable. Though 
these moments are very short, their power, however, which is transmitted to the 
soul, remains with it for a very long time. Without the least effort, I experience the 
profound recollection which then envelops me - and it does not diminish even if I 
talk with people, nor does it interfere with the performance of my duties. I feel the 



125 




constant presence of God without any effort of my soul. I know that I am united 
with Him as closely as a drop of water is united with the bottomless ocean. 



Last Thursday, toward the end of my prayers, I felt this grace, and it lasted for an 
unusually long time, for it was throughout Mass, so that I thought I would die of joy. 
At such times, my knowledge of God and his attributes becomes more acute, and 
also I know my own self and my misery much better. I am amazed at the Lord’s 
great condescension to such a miserable soul as mine. After Holy Mass, I felt 
completely immersed in God and am still conscious of His every glance into the 
depth of my heart. About midday, I entered the chapel for a moment, and again 
the power of grace struck my heart. As I continued in a state of recollection, Satan 
took a flowerpot and angrily hurled it to the ground with all his might. I saw all his 
rage and his jealousy. 

41 2 There was no one in the chapel, so I got up, picked up the pieces of the flowerpot, 
repotted the flower and tried to do all this before anyone came in. But I did not 
manage to do so, as Mother Superior [Borgia] came in at that moment together 
with the sister sacristan 93 and several other sisters. Mother Superior was 
surprised that I had been touching something on the altar and (172) thus caused 
the flowerpot to fall. Sister sacristan showed her displeasure, and I did my best not 
to explain or excuse myself. But towards evening I felt very exhausted and could 
not make my Holy Hour, so I asked Mother Superior to allow me to go to bed early. 

I feel asleep as soon as I lay down, but at about eleven o’clock Satan shook my 
bed. I awoke instantly, and I started to pray peacefully to my Guardian Angel. 

Then I saw the souls who were doing penance in purgatory. They appeared like 
shadows, and among them I saw many demons. One of these tried to vex me; 
taking the form of a cat, he kept throwing himself onto my bed and on my feet, and 
he was quite heavy, as if [weighing] a ton. 

I kept praying the rosary all the while, and toward dawn these beings vanished, 
and I was able to get some sleep. When I entered the chapel in the morning I 
heard a voice in my soul, You are united to Me; fear nothing. But know, my 
child, that Satan hates you; he hates every soul, but he burns with a 
particular hatred for you, because you have snatched so many souls from 
his dominion. 



Holy Thursday, April 18 

41 3 This morning I heard these words: From today until the [celebration of the] 
Resurrection, you will not feel My presence, but your soul will be filled with 
great longing. And immediately a great longing filled my soul; I felt a separation 
from my beloved Jesus, and when the moment for Holy Communion came, I saw 
the suffering Face of Jesus in every Host [contained] in the chalice. From that 
moment, I felt a more intense yearning in my heart. 

414 On Good Friday, at three o’clock in the afternoon, when I entered the chapel, I 
heard these words: I desire that the image be publicly (173) honored. Then I 
saw the Lord Jesus dying on the Cross amidst great suffering, and out of the Heart 
of Jesus came the same two rays as are in the image. 



126 




415 Saturday. During Vespers, I saw the Lord Jesus radiant as the sun, in a bright 
garment, and He said to me, May your heart be joyful. And great joy flooded me, 
and I was penetrated with God’s presence, which for the soul, is a treasure beyond 
words. 

41 6 When the image was displayed, 94 1 saw a sudden movement of the hand of Jesus, 
as He made a large sign of the cross. In the evening of the same day, when I had 
gone to bed, I saw the image going over the town, and the town was covered with 
what appeared to be a mesh and nets. As Jesus passed, He cut through all the 
nets and finally made a large sign of the cross and disappeared. I saw myself 
surrounded by a multitude of malicious figures burning with hatred for me. Various 
threats came from their lips, but none of them touched me. After a moment, this 
apparition vanished, but for a long time I could not get to sleep. 

41 7 [April] 26. On Friday, when I was at Ostra Brama to attend the ceremony during 
which the image was displayed, I heard a sermon given by my confessor [Father 
Sopocko]. This sermon about divine Mercy was the first of the things that Jesus 
had asked for so very long ago. When he began to speak about the great mercy of 
the Lord, the image came alive and the rays pieced the hearts of the people 
gathered there, but not all to the same degree. Some received more, some less. 
Great joy filled my soul to see the grace of God. 

(174) Then I heard the words, You are a witness of My mercy. You shall stand 
before My throne forever as a living witness to My mercy. 

41 8 When the sermon was over, I did not wait for the end of the service, as I was in a 
hurry to get back home. When I had taken a few steps, a great multitude of 
demons blocked my way. They threatened me with terrible tortures, and voices 
could be heard: “She has snatched away everything we have worked for over so 
many years!” When I asked them, “Where have you come from in such great 
numbers?” the wicked forms answered, “Out of human hearts; stop tormenting us!” 

41 9 Seeing their great hatred for me, I immediately asked my Guardian Angel for help, 
and at once the bright and radiant figure of my Guardian Angel appeared and said 
to me, “Do not fear, spouse of my Lord; without His permission these spirits will do 
you no harm.” Immediately the evil spirits vanished, and the faithful Guardian 
Angel accompanied me, in a visible manner, right to the very house. His look was 
modest and peaceful, and a flame of fire sparkled from his forehead. 

O Jesus, I would like to toil and wear myself out and suffer all my life for that one 
moment in which I saw Your glory, O lord, and profit for souls. 

Sunday, [April] 28, 1935. 

420 Low Sunday; that is, the Feast of The Divine Mercy, the conclusion of the Jubilee 
of Redemption. When we went to take part in the celebrations, my heart leapt with 
joy that the two solemnities were so closely united. I asked God for mercy on the 
souls of sinners. Toward the end of the service, when the priest took the Blessed 
Sacrament to bless the people, I saw the Lord Jesus as He is represented in the 
image. The Lord gave His blessing, and the rays extended over the whole world. 



127 




Suddenly, I saw an impenetrable brightness in the form of a crystal dwelling place, 
woven together from waves of brilliance unapproachable ( 175 ) to both creatures 
and spirits. Three doors led to this resplendence. At that moment, Jesus, as He is 
represented in the image, entered this resplendence through the second door to 
the Unity within. It is a triple United, which is incomprehensible - which is infinity. I 
head a voice, This Feast emerged from the very depths of My mercy, and it is 
confirmed in the vast depths of My tender mercies. Every soul believing and 
trusting in My mercy will obtain it. I was overjoyed at the immense goodness 
and greatness of my God. 



April 29, 1935 

421 On the eve of the exposition of the image, I went with our Mother Superior to visit 
our confessor [Father Sopocko]. When the conversation touched upon the image, 
the confessor asked for one of the sisters to help make some wreaths. Mother 
Superior replied, “Sister Faustina will help.” I was delighted at this, and when we 
returned home, I immediately set about preparing some greens, and with the help 
of one of our wards brought them over. Another person, who works at the church, 
also helped. Everything was ready by seven o’clock that evening, and the image 
was already hanging in its place. However, some ladies saw me standing around 
there, for I was more a bother than a help, and on the next day they asked the 
sisters what this beautiful image was and what was its significance. Surely these 
sisters would know, [they thought] as one of them had helped adorn it the day 
before. The sisters were very surprised as they knew nothing about it; they all 
wanted to see it and immediately they began to suspect me. They said, “Sister 
Faustina must certainly know all about it.” 

When they began asking me, I was silent, since I could not tell the truth. My 
silence increased their curiosity, and I was even more on my guard not to tell a lie 
and not to tell the truth, since I had no permission [to do so]. Then they started to 
show their displeasure and reproached me openly saying, “How is it that ( 176 ) 
outsiders know about this and we, nothing?” Various judgments were being made 
about me. I suffered much for three days, but a special power took over in my 
soul. I was happy to suffer for God and for the souls that have been granted His 
mercy during these days. Seeing that so many souls have been granted divine 
mercy these days, I regard as nothing even the greatest suffering and toil, even if 
they were to continue till the end of the world; for they will come to an end, while 
these souls have been saved from torments that are without end. It was a great 
joy for me to see others returning to the source of happiness, the bosom of The 
Divine Mercy. 

422 Seeing Father Sopocko’s sacrifice and efforts for this work, I admired his patience 
and humility. This all cost a great deal, not only in terms of toil and various 
troubles, but also of money; and Father Sopocko was taking care of all the 
expenses. I can see that Divine Providence had prepared him to carry out this 
work of mercy before I had asked God for this. Oh, how strange are your ways, O 
God! And how happy are the souls that follow the call of divine grace! 



128 




423 Praise the Lord, my soul, for everything, and glorify His mercy, for His goodness is 
without end. Everything will pass, but His mercy is without limit or end. And 
although evil will attain its measure, in mercy there is no measure. 

O my God, even in the punishments You send down upon the earth I see the 
abyss of Your mercy, for by punishing us here on earth You free us from eternal 
punishment. Rejoice, all you creatures, for you are closer to God in His infinite 
mercy than a baby to its mother’s heart. O God, You are compassion itself for the 
greatest sinners who sincerely repent. The greater the sinner, the greater his right 
to God’s ( 177 ) mercy. 



A Certain Moment, May 12, 1935 

424 In the evening, I just about got into bed, and I fell asleep immediately. Though I fell 
asleep quickly, I was awakened even more quickly. A little child came and woke 
me up. The child seemed about a year old, and I was surprised it could speak so 
well, as children of that age either do not speak or speak very indistinctly. The 
child was beautiful beyond words and resembled the Child Jesus, and he said to 
me, Look at the sky. And when I looked at the sky I saw the stars and the moon 
shining. Then the child asked me, Do you see this moon and these stars? 

When I said yes, he spoke these words to me, These stars are the souls of 
faithful Christians, and the moon is the souls of religious. Do you see how 
great the difference is between the light of the moon and the light of the 
stars? Such is the difference in heaven between the soul of a religious and 
the soul of a faithful Christian. And he went on to say that, True greatness is 
in loving God and in humility. 

425 Then I saw a soul which was being separated from its body amid great torment. O 
Jesus, as I am about to write this, I tremble at the sight of the horrible things that 

bear witness against him I saw the souls of little children and those of older 

ones, about nine years of age, emerging from some kind of a muddy abyss. The 
souls were foul and disgusting, resembling the most terrible monsters and 
decaying corpses. But the corpses were living and gave loud testimony against 
the dying soul. And the soul I saw dying was a soul full of the world’s applause 
and honors, the end of which are emptiness and sin. Finally a woman came out 
who was holding something like tears in her apron, and she witnessed very 
strongly against him. 

426 O terrible hour, ( 178 ) at which one is obliged to see all one’s deeds in their 
nakedness and misery; not one of them is lost, they will all accompany us to God’s 
judgment. I can find no words or comparisons to express such terrible things. And 
although it seems to me that this soul is not damned, nevertheless its torments are 
in no way different from the torments of hell; there is only this difference: that they 
will someday come to an end. 

427 A moment later, I again saw the child who had awakened me. It was of wondrous 
beauty and repeated these words to me, True greatness of the soul is in loving 
God and in humility. I asked the child, “How do you know that true greatness of 
the soul is in loving God and in humility? Only theologians know about such things 



129 




and you haven’t even learned the catechism. So how do you know?” To this He 
answered, I know; I know all things. And with that, He disappeared. 

428 But I could no longer get to sleep; my mind became exhausted by thinking about 
the things I had seen. O human souls, how late you learn the truth! O abyss of 
God’s mercy, pour yourself out as quickly as possible over the whole world, 
according to what You Yourself have said. 

May, 1935. A Certain Moment. 

429 When I became aware of God’s great plans for me, I was frightened at their 
greatness and felt myself quite incapable of fulfilling them, and I began to avoid 
interior conversations with Him, filling up the time with vocal prayer. I did this out 
of humility, but I soon recognized it was not true humility, but rather a great 
temptation from the devil. When, on one occasion, instead of interior prayer, I took 
up a book of spiritual reading, I heard these words spoken distinctly and forcefully 
within my soul, You will prepare the world for My final coming. These words 
moved me deeply, and although I pretended (179) not to hear them, I understood 
them very well and had no doubt about them. Once, being tired out from this battle 
of love with God, and making constant excuses on the grounds that I was unable 
to carry out this task, I wanted to leave the chapel, but some force held me back 
and I found myself powerless. Then I heard these words, You intend to leave the 
chapel, but you shall not get away from Me, for I am everywhere. You cannot 
do anything of yourself, but with Me you can do all things. 

430 When, in the course of the week, I went to see my confessor [Father Sopocko], 
and revealed the condition of my soul to him, especially the fact that I was avoiding 
interior conversation with God, I was told that I must not shrink from interior 
conversation with God, but should listen intently to the words He speaks to me. 

431 I followed my confessor’s advice, and at the first meeting with the Lord, I fell at 
Jesus’ feet and, with a grief-stricken heart, apologized for everything. Then Jesus 
lifted me up from the ground and sat me beside Him and let me put my head on 
His breast, so that I could better understand and feel the desires of His most sweet 
Heart. Then he spoke these words to me, My daughter, have fear of nothing; I 
am always with you. All your adversaries will harm you only to the degree 
that I permit them to do so. You are my dwelling place and my constant 
repose. For your sake I will withhold the hand which punishes; for your sake 
I bless the earth. 

432 At that very moment, I felt some kind of fire in my heart. I feel my senses 
deadening and have no idea of what is going on around me. I feel the Lord’s gaze 
piercing me through and through. I am very much aware of His greatness and my 
misery. An extraordinary suffering pervades my soul, together with a joy I cannot 
compare to anything. If eel powerless in the embrace of God. I feel that I am in 
Him and that I am dissolved in Him like a drop of water in the ocean. I cannot 
express what takes place within me; after such interior prayer, I feel strength and 
power to practice the most difficult virtues. I feel dislike for all things that the world 
holds in esteem. With all my soul I desire silence and solitude. 



130 




433 (180) May, 1935. During a Forty Hours Devotion I saw the face of the Lord Jesus 
in the Sacred Host which was exposed in the monstrance. Jesus was looking with 
kindness at everyone. 

434 I often see the Child Jesus during Holy Mass. He is extremely beautiful. He 
appears to be about one year old. Once, when I saw the same Child during Mass 
in our chapel, I was seized with a violent desire and an irresistible longing to 
approach the altar and take the Child Jesus. At that moment, the Child Jesus was 
standing by me on the side of my kneeler, and He leaned with His two little hands 
against my shoulder, gracious and joyful, His look deep and penetrating. But when 
the priest broke the Host, Jesus was once again on the altar, and was broken and 
consumed by the priest. 

After Holy Communion, I saw Jesus in the same way in my heart and felt Him 
physically in my heart throughout the day. Unconsciously, a most profound 
recollection took possession of me, and I did not exchange a word with anyone. I 
avoided people as much as I could, always answering questions regarding my 
duties, but beyond that, not a word. 

June 9, 1935. Pentecost. 

435 As I was walking in the garden in the evening, I heard these words: By your 
entreaties, you and your companions shall obtain mercy for yourselves and 
for the world. I understood that I would not remain in the Congregation in which I 
am at the present time. 95 I saw clearly that God’s will regarding me was otherwise. 
But I kept making excuses before God, telling Him that I was unable to carry out 
this task. “Jesus, You know very well what I am” [I said], and I started enumerating 
my weaknesses to the Lord, hiding behind them so that He would agree that I was 
unable to carry out (181) His plans. Then I heard these words: Do not fear; I 
Myself will make up for everything that is lacking in you. But these words 
penetrated me to my depths and made me even more aware of my misery, and I 
understood that the word of the Lord is living and that it penetrates to the very 
depths. I understood that God demands a more perfect way of life of me. 

However, I kept using my incompetence as an excuse. 

436 June 29, 1935. When I talked to my spiritual director [Father Sopocko] about 
various things that the Lord was asking of me, I thought he would tell me that I was 
incapable of accomplishing all those things, and that the Lord Jesus did not use 
miserable souls like me for the works He wanted done. But I heard words [to the 
effect] that it was just such souls that God chooses most frequently to carry out His 
plans. This priest is surely guided by the Spirit of God; he has penetrated the 
secrets of my soul, the deepest secrets which were between me and God, about 
which I had not yet spoken to him, because I had not understood them myself, and 
the Lord had not clearly ordered me to tell him. The secret is this: God demands 
that there be a congregation which will proclaim the mercy of God to the world and, 
by its prayers, obtain it for the world. When the priest asked me if I had not had 
any such inspirations, I replied that I had not had any clear orders; but at that 
instant a light penetrated my soul, and I understood that the Lord was speaking 
through him. 



131 




437 



In vain had I defended myself by saying I had not received any clear orders, for at 
the end of our conversation I saw the Lord Jesus on the threshold, as He is 
represented in the image, and He said to me, I desire that there be such a 
Congregation. 96 This lasted only a moment. (182) Yet I did not tell him about it 
right away, as I was in a hurry to get back home, and I kept repeating to the Lord, 

“I am unable to carry out Your plans, O Lord!” But, strangely enough, Jesus paid 
no attention to my appeals, but gave me to see and understand how pleasing this 
work was to Him. He took no account of my weakness, but gave me to know how 
many difficulties I must overcome. And I, His poor creature, could say nothing but 
“I am incapable of it, O my God!” 

438 June 30, 1935. At the very beginning of Holy Mass on the following day, I saw 
Jesus in all His unspeakable beauty. He said to me that he desired that such a 
Congregation be founded as soon as possible, and you shall live in it 
together with your companions. My Spirit shall be the rule of your life. Your 
life is to be modeled on Mine, from the crib to My death on the Cross. 
Penetrate My mysteries, and you will know the abyss of My mercy towards 
creatures and My unfathomable goodness - and this you shall make known 
to the world. Through your prayers, you shall mediate between heaven and 
earth. 

439 Then came the moment to receive Holy Communion, and Jesus disappeared, and 
I saw a great brightness. Then I heard these words: We give Our blessing, and 
at that moment a bright ray issued from that light and pierced my heart; an 
extraordinary fire was enkindled in my soul - I thought I would die of joy and 
happiness. I felt the separation of my spirit from my body. I felt totally immersed in 
God. I felt I was snatched up by the Almighty, like a particle of dust, into unknown 
expanses. 

Trembling with joy in the embrace of the Creator, I felt He Himself was supporting 
me so that I could bear this great happiness and gaze at His Majesty. Know now 
that, if He Himself had not (183) first strengthened me by His grace, my soul would 
not have been able to hear the happiness, and I would have died in an instant. 

Holy Mass came to an end I know not when, for it was beyond my power to pay 
attention to what was going on in the chapel. But when I recovered my senses, I 
felt the strength and courage to do God’s will; nothing seemed difficult to me; and 
whereas I had previously been making excuses to the Lord, I now felt the Lord’s 
courage and strength within me, and I said to the Lord, “I am ready for every beck 
and call of Your will!” Interiorly, I had gone through everything that I was going to 
experience in the future. 

440 O my Creator and Lord, my entire being is Yours! Dispose of me according to 
Your divine pleasure and according to Your eternal plans and Your unfathomable 
mercy. May every soul know how good the Lord is; may no soul fear to commune 
intimately with the Lord; may no soul use unworthiness as an excuse, and may it 
never postpone [accepting] God’s invitations, for that is not pleasing to the Lord. 
There is no soul more wretched than I am, as I truly know myself, and I am 
astounded that divine Majesty stoops so low. O eternity, it seems to me that you 
are too short to extol [adequately] the infinite mercy of the Lord! 



132 




441 



Once, the image was being exhibited over the altar during the Corpus Christi 
procession [June 20, 1935]. When the priest exposed the Blessed Sacrament, and 
the choir began to sing, the rays from image pierced the Sacred Host and spread 
out all over the world. Then I heard these words: These rays of mercy will pass 
through you, just as they have passed through this Host, and they will go out 
(184) through all the world. At these words, profound joy invaded my soul. 

442 Once when my confessor [Father Sopocko] was saying Mass, I saw, as usual, the 
Child Jesus on the altar, from the time of the Offertory. However, a moment before 
the Elevation, the priest vanished from my sight, and Jesus alone remained. When 
the moment of the Elevation approached, Jesus took the Host and the chalice in 
His little hands and raised them together, looking up to heaven, and a moment 
later I again saw my confessor. I asked the Child Jesus where the priest had been 
during the time I had not seen him. Jesus answered, In My Heart. But I could not 
understand anything more of these words of Jesus. 

443 On one occasion I heard these words, I desire that you live according to My 
will, in the most secret depths of your soul. I reflected on these words, which 
spoke very much to my heart. This was on the day of confessions for the 
community. When I went to confession and had accused myself of my sins, the 
priest [Father Sopocko] repeated to me the same words that the Lord had 
previously spoken. 

444 The priest spoke these profound words to me, “There are three degrees in the 
accomplishment of God’s will: in the first, the soul carries out all rules and statutes 
pertaining to external observance; in the second degree, the soul accepts interior 
inspiration and carries them out faithfully; in the third degree, the soul, abandoned 
to the will of God, allows Him to dispose of it freely, and God does with it as, He 
pleases, and it is a docile tool in His hands.” And the priest said that I was at the 
second degree in the accomplishment of God’s will and that I had not yet reached 
the (185) third degree, but that I should strive to attain it. These words pierced my 
soul. I see clearly that God often gives the priest knowledge of what is going on in 
the depths of my soul. This does not surprise me at all; indeed, I thank God that 
He has such chosen persons. 

Thursday, Nocturnal Adoration. 

445 When I came for adoration, an inner recollection took hold of me immediately, and 
I saw the Lord Jesus tied to a pillar, stripped of His clothes, and the scourging 
began immediately. I saw four men who took turns at striking the Lord with 
scourges. My heart almost stopped at the sight of these tortures. The Lord said to 
me, I suffer even greater pain than that which you see. And Jesus gave me to 
know for what sins He subjected Himself to the scourging: these are sins of 
impurity. Oh, how dreadful was Jesus’ moral suffering during the scourging! Then 
Jesus said to me, Look and see the human race in its present condition. In an 
instant, I saw horrible things: the executioners left Jesus, and other people started 
scourging Him; they seized the scourges and struck the Lord Mercilessly. These 
were priests, religious men and women, and high dignitaries of the Church, which 
surprised me greatly. There were lay people of all ages and walks of life. All 
vented their malice on the innocent Jesus. Seeing this, my heart fell as if into a 



133 




mortal agony. And while the executioners had been scourging Him, Jesus had 
been silent and looking into the distance; but when those other souls I mentioned 
scourged Him, Jesus closed His eyes, and a soft but most painful moan escaped 
from His Heart. And Jesus gave me to know in detail the gravity of the malice of 
the ungrateful souls: You see, this is a torture greater than My death. Then my 
lips too fell silent, and I began to experience (186) the agony of death, and I felt 
that no one would comfort me or snatch me from that state but the One who had 
put me into it. Then the Lord said to me, I see the sincere pain of your heart 
which brought great solace to My Heart. See and take comfort. 

446 Then I saw the Lord Jesus nailed to the cross. When He had hung on it for a 
while, I saw a multitude of souls crucified like Him. Then I saw a second multitude 
of souls, and a third. The second multitude was not nailed to [their] crosses, but 
were holding them firmly in their hands. The third were neither nailed to [their] 
crosses nor holding them firmly in their hands, but were dragging [their]crosses 
behind them and were discontent. Jesus then said to me. Do you see these 
souls? Those who are like Me in the pain and contempt they suffer will be 
like Me also in glory. And those who resemble Me less in paid and contempt 
will also bear less resemblance to Me in glory. 

Among the crucified souls, the most numerous were those of the clergy. I also saw 
some crucified souls whom I knew, and this gave me great joy. Then Jesus said to 

me, In your meditation tomorrow, you shall think about what you have seen 
today. And immediately Jesus disappeared on me. 

447 Friday. I was ill and could not attend Holy Mass. At seven o’clock in the morning I 
saw my confessor celebrating Holy Mass, during which I saw the Child Jesus. 
Toward the end of Mass, the vision disappeared, and I found myself back in my 
cell as before. Indescribable joy took hold of me because, although I could not go 
to Mass in our chapel, I had assisted at it in a church which was far distant. Jesus 
has a remedy for everything. 

(187) July 30, 1935. 

448 Feast of St. Ignatius. I prayed fervently to this Saint, reproaching him for looking 
on and not coming to my aid in such important matters as doing the will of God. I 
said to him, “You, our Patron, who were inflamed with the fire of love and zeal for 
the greater glory of God, I humbly beg you to help me to carry out God’s 
designs.” 97 This was during Holy Mass. Then I saw Saint Ignatius at the left side 
of the altar, with a large book in his hand. And he spoke these words to me, “My 
daughter, I am not indifferent to your cause. This rule can be adapted, and it can 
be adapted to this Congregation.” And gesturing with his hand toward the big 
book, he disappeared. I rejoiced greatly at the fact of how much the saints think of 
us and of how closely we are united with them. Oh, the goodness of God! How 
beautiful is the spiritual world, that already here on earth we commune with the 
saints! All day long, I could feel the presence of this dear Patron Saint. 

August 5, 1935. The Feast of Our Lady of Mercy. 



134 




449 I prepared for this feast with greater zeal than in previous years. On the morning 
of the feast itself, I experienced an inner struggle at the thought that I must leave 
this Congregation which enjoys such special protection from Mary. This struggle 
lasted through the meditation and through the first Mass as well. During the 
second Mass, I turned to our Holy Mother, telling Her that it was difficult for me to 
separate myself from this Congregation.... “which is under Your special protection, 
O Mary.” Then I saw the Blessed Virgin, unspeakably beautiful. She came down 
from the altar to my kneeler, held me close to herself and said to me, / am Mother 
to you all, thanks to the unfathomable mercy of God. Most pleasing to Me Is that 
soul which faithfully carries out the will of God. She gave me to understand that I 
had faithfully fulfilled the will (188) of god and had thus found favor in His eyes. Be 
courageous. Do not fear apparent obstacles, but fix your gaze upon the Passion of 
My Son, and in this way you will be victorious. 

Nocturnal Adoration. 

450 I was suffering very much, and it seemed to me I would not be able to make my 
adoration, but I gathered up all my will power and, although I collapsed in my cell, I 
paid no attention to what ailed me, for I had the Passion of Jesus before my eyes. 
When I entered the chapel, I received an inner understanding of the great reward 
that God is preparing for us, not only for our good deeds, but also for our sincere 
desire to perform them. What a great grace of God this is! 

Oh, how sweet it is to toil for God and souls! I want no respite in this battle, but I 
shall fight to the last breath for the glory of my King and Lord. I shall not lay the 
sword aside until He calls me before His throne; I fear no blows, because God is 
my shield. It is the enemy who should fear us, and not we him. Satan defeats only 
the proud and the cowardly, because the humble are strong. Nothing will confuse 
or frighten a humble soul. I have directed my flight at the very center of the sun’s 
heat, and nothing can lower its course. Love will not allow itself to be taken 
prisoner; it is free like a queen. Love attains God. 

451 Once after Holy Communion, I heard these words: You are Our dwelling place. 

At that moment, I felt in my soul the presence of the Holy Trinity, the Father, the 
Son, and the Holy Spirit. I felt that I was the temple of God. I felt I was a child of 
the Father. I cannot explain all this, but the spirit understands it well. O Infinite 
Goodness, how low You stoop to Your miserable creature! 

452 If only souls would become recollected, God would speak to them at once, for 
dissipation drowns out the world of the Lord. 

453 (189) On one occasion, the Lord said to me, Why are you fearful and why do 

you tremble when you are united to Me? I am displeased when a soul yields 
to vain terrors. Who will dare to touch you when you are with Me? Most 
dear to Me is the soul that strongly believes in My goodness and has 
complete trust in Me. I heap My confidence upon it and give it all it asks. 



454 Once, the Lord said to me, My daughter, take the graces that others spurn; 

take as many as you can carry. At that moment, my soul was inundated with the 



135 




love of God. I feel that I am united with the Lord so closely that I cannot find words 
to express that union; in this state I suddenly feel that all the things God has, all the 
goods and treasures, are mine, although I set little store by them, for He alone is 
enough for me. In Him I see my everything: without Him - nothing. 

I look for no happiness beyond my own interior where God dwells. I rejoice that 
God dwells within me; here I abide with Him unendingly; it is here that my greatest 
intimacy with Him exists; here I dwell with Him in safety; here is a place not probed 
by the human eye. The Blessed Virgin encourages me to commune with God in 
this way. 

455 When some suffering afflicts me, it no longer causes me any bitterness, nor do 
great consolations carry me away. I am filled with the peace and equanimity that 
flow from the knowledge of the truth. How can living surrounded by unfriendly 
hearts do me any harm when I enjoy full happiness within my soul? Or, how can 
having kind hearts around me help me when I do not have God within me? When 
God dwells within me, who can harm me? 

+ 

(190) J.M.J. Vilnius, August 12, 1935 

Three-day Retreat. 

456 On the evening of the introductory day of the retreat, as I listened to the points for 
the meditation, I heard these words: During this retreat I will speak to you 
through the mouth of this priest to strengthen you and assure you of the 
truth of the words which I address to you in the depths of your soul. 

Although this is a retreat for all the sisters, I have you especially in mind, as I 
want to strengthen you and make you fearless in the midst of all the 
adversities which lie ahead. Therefore, listen intently to his words and 
meditate upon them in the depths of your soul. 

457 Oh, how astonished I was, for everything the father said about union with God and 
the obstacles to this union I had experienced literally in my soul and heard from 
Jesus, who speaks to me in the depths of my soul. Perfection consists in this 
close union with God. 

458 During the ten-o’clock meditation, Father [Rzyczkowski 98 ] spoke about divine 
mercy and about God’s goodness to us. He said that as we review the history of 
mankind, we can see this great goodness of God at every step. All the attributes 
of God, such as omnipotence and wisdom, serve to reveal to us the greatest of His 
attributes; namely, His goodness. God’s goodness is the greatest of God’s 
attributes. Many souls striving for perfection, however, are not aware of this great 
goodness of God. Everything that Father said in the course of the meditation 
about the goodness of God, was exactly what Jesus had said to me concerning 

(191) the Feast of Mercy. I have now come to understand clearly what the Lord 
has promised me, and I have no doubt about anything; God’s language is clear 
and distinct. 



136 




459 Throughout that entire meditation I saw the Lord Jesus on the altar, in a white 
garment, His hand holding the notebook in which I write these things. Throughout 
the entire meditation Jesus kept turning the pages of the notebook and remained 
silent; however, my heart could not bear the fire that was enkindled in my soul. 
Despite the great effort of my will to take control of myself and not let others see 
what was going on in my soul, toward the end of the meditation I felt that I was 
completely beyond my own control. Then Jesus said to me, You have not written 
everything in the notebook about My goodness towards humankind; I desire 
that you omit nothing; I desire that your heart be firmly grounded in total 
peace. 

460 O Jesus, my heart stops beating when I think of all You are doing for me! I am 
amazed at You, Lord, that You would stoop so low to my wretched soul! What 
inconceivable means You take to convince me! 

461 This is the first time in my life that I have made such a retreat. I understand in a 
special and clear way every single word that Father speaks, for I have first 
experienced it all in my soul. I now see that Jesus will not leave in doubt any soul 
that loves Him sincerely. Jesus wants the soul that is in close communion with 
Him to be filled with peace, despite sufferings and adversities. 

462 Now I understand well that what unites our soul most closely to God is self-denial; 
that is, joining our will to the will of God. This is what makes the soul truly free, 
contributes to profound recollection of the spirit, and makes all life’s burdens light, 
and death sweet. 

463 (192) Jesus told me that if I should have any doubts regarding the feast or the 
founding of the Congregation, - or regarding anything else about which I have 
spoken in the depths of your soul, I will reply immediately through the mouth 
of this priest. 

464 During a meditation on humility, an old doubt returned: that a soul as miserable as 
mine could not carry out the task which the Lord was demanding [of me]. Just as I 
was analyzing this doubt, the priest who was conducting the retreat interrupted his 
train of thought and spoke about the very thing I was having doubts about; namely, 
that God usually chooses the weakest and simplest souls as tools for His greatest 
works; that we can see that this is an undeniable truth when we look at the men He 
chose to be His apostles; or again, when we look at the history of the Church and 
see what great works were done by souls that were the least capable of 
accomplishing them; for it is just in this way that God’s works are revealed for what 
they are, the works of God. When my doubt had completely disappeared, the 
priest resumed his conference on humility. 

465 Jesus, my Life, how well I feel that You are transforming me into Yourself, in the 
secrecy of my soul where the senses can no longer perceive much. O my Savior, 
conceal me completely in the depths of Your Heart and shield me with Your rays 
against everything that is not You. I beg You, Jesus, let the two rays that have 
issued from Your most merciful Heart continuously nourish my soul. 

466 (193) Time of Confession 



137 




My confessor [Father Sopocko] asked me if at that moment Jesus was there and if 
I could see Him. “Yes, He is here, and I can see Him.” He then told me to ask 
Jesus about certain persons. Jesus did not answer me, but looked at him. 
However, after the confession, when I was reciting my penance, Jesus spoke 
these words to me: Go and console him on my behalf. Not understanding the 
meaning of these words, I immediately repeated to him what Jesus had told me to 
do. 

467 Throughout the whole retreat, I was in uninterrupted communion with Jesus and 
entered into an intimate relationship with Him with all the might of my heart. 

468 The day of the renewal of vows. At the beginning of Holy Mass, I saw Jesus in the 
usual way. He blessed us and then entered the tabernacle. Then I saw the 
Mother of God in a white garment and blue mantle, with Her head uncovered. She 
approached me from the altar, touched me with Her hands and covered me with 
Her mantle, saying, Offer these vows for Poland. Pray for her. This was on 
August fifteen. 

469 On the evening of that same day, I felt in my soul a great yearning for God. I do 
not see Him at this moment with my bodily eyes as I have on other occasions, but I 
sense His presence and yet do not grasp Him [with my mind]. This causes me 
great yearning and torment beyond words. I am dying from the desire to possess 
Him, to be drowned in Him forever. My spirit pursues Him with all its might; there 
is nothing in the world that could comfort me. O Love Eternal, now I understand in 
what close intimacy my heart was with You! For what else can satisfy me in 
heaven or on earth except You, O my God, in Whom my soul is drowned. 

470 (194) One evening, as I looked up from my cell to the sky and saw the beautiful 
star-strewn firmament and the moon, an inconceivable fire of love for my Creator 
welled up within my soul and, unable to bear the yearning for Him that arose within 
my soul, I fell on my face, humbling myself in the dust. I glorified Him for all His 
works and, when my heart could no longer bear what was going on within it, I wept 
aloud. Then my Guardian Angel touched me and spoke to me these words: “The 
Lord orders me to tell you to rise from the ground.” I did so immediately, but felt no 
consolation in my soul. The yearning for God grew even stronger in me. 

471 One day, when I was at adoration, and my spirit seemed to be dying for Him, and I 
could no longer hold back my tears, I saw a spirit of great beauty who spoke these 
words to me: “Don’t cry - says the Lord.” After a moment I asked, “Who are you?” 
He answered me, “I am one of the seven spirits who stand before the throne of 
God day and night and give Him ceaseless praise.” Yet this spirit did not soothe 
my yearning, but roused me to even greater longing for God. This spirit is very 
beautiful, and his beauty comes from close union with God. This spirit does not 
leave me for a single moment, but accompanies me everywhere. 

On the following day during Holy Mass, before the Elevation, this spirit began to 
sing these words: Holy, Holy, Holy.” His voice was like that of a thousand voices; 
it is impossible to put it into words. Suddenly, my spirit was united with God, and in 



138 




that instant I saw the grandeur and the inconceivable holiness of God and, at the 
same time, I realized (195) the nothingness I am of myself. 

472 I knew, more distinctly, than ever before, the Three divine Persons, the Father, the 
Son, and the Holy Spirit. But their being, their equality, and their majesty are one. 
My soul is in communion with these Three; but I do not know how to express this in 
words; yet, my soul understands it well. Whoever is united to One of the Three 
Persons is thereby united to the whole Blessed Trinity, for this Oneness is 
indivisible. This vision, or rather, this knowledge filled my soul with unimaginable 
happiness, because God is so great. What I am describing I did not see with me 
eyes, as on previous occasions, but in a purely interior manner, in a purely spiritual 
way, independent of the senses. This continued until the end of Holy Mass. 

This now happens often to me, and not only in the chapel, but also at work and at 
times when I least expect it. 

473 When our confessor [Father Sopocko] was away, I confessed to the Archbishop 
[Romuald Jalbrzykowski 99 ]. When I revealed my soul to him, I received this reply: 
“My daughter, arm yourself with great patience; if these things come from God, 
they will be realized sooner or later. So be completely at peace. I understand you 
very well in this matter, my daughter. And now, as regards your leaving the 
Congregation and thinking of another one, do not entertain such thoughts, for this 
would be a serious interior temptation.” After this confession, I said to the Lord 
Jesus, “Why do You command me to do such things and yet do not make it 
possible to accomplish them?” Then I saw the Lord Jesus after Holy Communion 
in the same little chapel where I had gone to confession, in the same way in which 
He is represented in the image. The Lord said to me, Do not be sad. I will give 
him to understand the things I am asking of you. When we were leaving, (196) 
the Archbishop was very busy, but he told us to return and wait a bit. When we 
entered the chapel again, I heard these words in my soul: Tell him what you 
have seen in this chapel. At that very moment the Archbishop came in and 
asked if we did not have something to tell him. But although I had been 
commanded to tell him, I could not do so because I was in the company of one of 
the sisters. 

One more word from the Holy Confession: “To entreat mercy for the world is a 
great and beautiful idea. Pray much, Sister, pray for mercy upon sinners, but do it 
in your own convent.” 

The following day, Friday, September 13, 1935. 

474 In the evening, when I was in my cell, I saw an Angel, the executor of divine wrath. 
He was clothed in a dazzling robe, his face gloriously bright, a cloud beneath his 
feet. From the cloud, bolts of thunder and flashes of lightning were springing into 
his hands; and from his hand they were going forth, and only then were they 
striking the earth. When I saw this sign of divine wrath which was about to strike 
the earth, and in particular a certain place, which for good reasons I cannot name, I 
began to implore the Angel to hold off for a few moments, and the world would do 
penance. But my plea was a mere nothing in the face of the divine anger. Just 
then I saw the Most Holy Trinity. The greatness of Its majesty pierced me deeply, 



139 




and I did not dare to repeat my entreaties. At that very moment I felt in my soul the 
power of Jesus’ grace, which dwells in my soul. When I became conscious of this 
grace, I was instantly snatched up before the Throne of God. Oh, how great is our 
Lord and God and how incomprehensible His holiness! I will make no attempt to 
describe this greatness, because before long we shall all see Him as He is. I 
found myself pleading with ( 197 ) God for the world with words heard interiorly. 

As I was praying in this manner, I saw the Angel’s helplessness: he could not 
carry out the just punishment which was rightly due for sins. Never before had I 
prayed with such inner power as I did then. 

475 The words with which I entreated God are these: Eternal Father, I offer You the 
Body and Blood, Soul and Divinity of Your dearly beloved son, Our Lord 
Jesus Christ for our sins and those of the whole world; for the sake of His 
sorrowful Passion, have mercy on us. 

476 The next morning, when I entered chapel, I heard these words interiorly: Every 
time you enter the chapel, immediately recite the prayer which I taught you 
yesterday. When I had said the prayer, in my soul I heard these words: This 
prayer will serve to appease My wrath. You will recite it for nine days, on the 
beads of the rosary, in the following manner: First of all, you will say one 
OUR FATHER and HAIL MARY and the I BELIEVE IN GOD. Then on the OUR 
FATHER beads you will say the following words: “Eternal Father, I offer You 
the Body and Blood, Soul and divinity of Your dearly beloved Son, Our Lord 
Jesus Christ, in atonement for our sins and those of the whole world.” On 
the HAIL MARY beads you will say the following words: “For the sake of His 
sorrowful Passion have mercy on us and on the whole world.” In 
conclusion, three times you will recite these words: “Holy God, Holy Mighty 
One, Holy Immortal One, have mercy on us and on the whole world .” 100 

477 Silence is a sword in the spiritual struggle. A talkative soul will never attain 
sanctity. The sword of silence will cut off everything that would like to cling to the 
soul. We are sensitive to words and quickly want to answer back, without taking 
any regard as to whether it is God’s will that we should speak. A silent soul is 
strong; no adversities will harm it if it perseveres in silence. The silent ( 198 ) soul is 
capable of attaining the closest union with God. It lives almost always under the 
inspiration of the Holy Spirit. God works in a silent soul without hindrance. 

478 O my Jesus, You know, You alone know well that my heart knows no other love but 

You! All my virginal love is drowned eternally in You, O Jesus! I sense keenly how 
Your divine Blood is circulating in my heart; I have not the least doubt that Your 
most pure love has entered my heart with Your most sacred Blood. I am aware 
that You are dwelling in me, together with the Father and the Holy Spirit, or rather I 
am aware that it is I who am living in You, O incomprehensible God! I am aware 
that I am dissolving in You like a drop in an ocean. I am aware that You are within 
me and all about me, that You are in all things that surround me, in all that 
happens to me. O my God, I have come to know You within my heart, and I have 
loved You above all things that exist on earth or in heaven. Our hearts have a 
mutual understanding, and no one of humankind will comprehend this. 



140 




479 My second confession to the Archbishop [Jalbrzykowski], “Know, my daughter, that 

if this is the will of God, it will take place sooner or later, for God’s will must be 
done. Love God in your heart, have ” [unfinished thought], 

480 September 29. The Feast of Saint Michael the Archangel. I have become interiorly 

united with God. His presence penetrates me to my very depths and fills me with 
peace, joy and amazement. After such moments of prayer, I am filled with strength 
and an extraordinary courage to suffer and struggle. Nothing terrifies me, even if 
the whole world should turn against me. All adversities touch only the surface, but 
they have no entry ( 199 ) to the depths, because God, who strengthens me, who 
fills me, dwells there. All the snares of the enemy are crushed at His footstool. 
During these moments of union, God sustains me with His might. His might 
passes on to me and makes me capable of loving Him. A soul never reaches this 
state by its own efforts. At the beginning of this interior grace, I was filled with 
fright, and I started to give in to it; but very quickly, the Lord let me know how much 
this displeases Him. But it is also He, Himself, who set my fears at rest. 

481 Almost every feast of the Church gives me a deeper knowledge of God and a 

special grace. That is why I prepare myself for each feast and unite myself closely 
with the spirit of the Church. What a joy it is to be a faithful child of the Church! 

Oh, how much I love Holy Church and all those who live in it! I look upon them as 
living members of Christ, who is their Head. I burn with love with those who love; I 
suffer with those who suffer. I am consumed with sorrow at the sight of those who 
are cold and ungrateful; and I then try to have such a love for God that it will make 
amends for those who do not love Him, those who feed their Savior with ingratitude 
at its worst. 

482 O my God, I am conscious of my mission in the Holy Church. It is my constant 

endeavor to plead for mercy for the world. I unite myself closely with Jesus and 
stand before Him as an atoning sacrifice on behalf of the world. God will refuse 
me nothing when I entreat Him with the voice of his son. My sacrifice is nothing in 
itself, but when I join it to the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, it becomes all-powerful and 
has the power to appease divine wrath. God loves us in His Son; the painful 
Passion of the Son of God constantly turns aside the wrath of God. 

483 ( 200 ) O God, how I desire that souls come to know You and to see that You have 

created them because of Your unfathomable love. O my Creator and Lord, I feel 
that I am going to remove the veil of heaven so that earth will not doubt Your 
goodness. 

Make of me, Jesus, a pure and agreeable offering before the Face of Your Father. 
Jesus, transform me, miserable and sinful as I am, into Your own self (for You can 
do all things), and give me to Your Eternal Father. I want to become a sacrificial 
host before You, but an ordinary wafer to people. I want the fragrance of my 
sacrifice to be known to You alone. O Eternal God, an unquenchable fire of 
supplication for Your mercy burns within me. I know and understand that this is my 
task, here and in eternity. You Yourself have told me to speak about this great 
mercy and about Your goodness. 



141 




484 On a certain occasion, I understood how very displeased God is with an act, 

however commendable, that does not bear the stamp of a pure intention. Such 
deeds incite God to punishment rather than to reward. May such deeds be as few 
as possible in our lives; indeed, in religious life, there should be none at all. 

485 I accept joy or suffering, praise or humiliation with the same disposition. I remember 

that one and the other are passing. What does it matter to me what people say 
about me? I have long ago given up everything that concerns my person. My 
name is host - or sacrifice, not in words but in deeds, in the emptying of myself 
and in becoming like You on the Cross, O Good Jesus, my Master! 

486 ( 201 ) Jesus, when You come to me in Holy Communion, You who, together with 
the Father and the Holy Spirit, have deigned to dwell in the little heaven of my 
heart, I try to keep You company throughout the day, I do not leave You alone for 
even a moment. Although I am in the company of other people or with our wards, 
my heart is always united to Him. When I am asleep I offer Him every beat of my 
heart; when I awaken I immerse myself in Him without saying a word. When I 
awaken I adore the Holy Trinity for a short while and thank God for having deigned 
to give me yet another day, that the mystery of the incarnation of His Son may 
once more be repeated in me, and that once again His sorrowful Passion may 
unfold before my eyes. I then try to make it easier for Jesus to pass through me to 
other souls. I go everywhere with Jesus; His presence accompanies me 
everywhere. 

487 In the sufferings of soul or body, I try to keep silence, for then my spirit gains the 

strength that flows from the Passion of Jesus. I have ever before my eyes His 
sorrowful Face, abused and disfigured, His divine Heart pierced by our sins and 
especially by the ingratitude of chose souls. 

488 Twice I was exhorted to make myself ready for sufferings awaiting me in Warsaw. 

The first warning was given interiorly by a voice I heard, and the second took place 
during Holy Mass. Before the elevation, I saw the Lord Jesus on the Cross and He 
said to me, Prepare yourself for sufferings. I thanked the Lord for the grace of 
this warning and said to Him, “I am certainly not going to suffer more than You, my 
Savior.” However, I took this to heart and kept strengthening myself through 
prayer and little sufferings so that I would be able to endure it when the greater 
ones come. 

( 202 ) October 19, 1935. 

Trip from Vilnius to Cracow for an Eight-day Retreat. 

489 On Friday evening during the rosary, when I was thinking about tomorrow’s journey 

and about the importance of the matter which I was to present to Father 
Andrasz, 101 fear seized me at the sight of my misery and incapability, and of the 
greatness of God’s work. Crushed by this suffering, I submitted myself to the will 
of God. At that moment, I saw Jesus, in a bright garment, near my kneeler. He 
said, Why are you afraid to do My will? Will I not help you as I have done 
thus far? Repeat every one of My demands to those who represent Me on 
earth, but do only what they tell you to do. At that, a certain strength entered 
my soul. 



142 




490 The next morning, I saw my Guardian Angel, who accompanied me throughout the 
journey as far as Warsaw. He disappeared when we entered the convent gate. 
Just as we were passing the little chapel on the way to greet the superiors, God’s 
presence took hold of me, and the Lord filled me with the fire of His love. At such 
moments, I always have a better understanding of the greatness of His majesty. 

When we took our seats on the train from Warsaw to Cracow, I once again saw my 
Guardian Angel at my side. He was absorbed in prayer and in contemplating God, 
and I followed him with my thoughts. When we arrived at the convent entrance, he 
disappeared. 

491 When I entered the chapel, once again the majesty of God overwhelmed me. I felt 
that I was immersed in God, totally immersed in Him and penetrated by Him, being 
aware of how much the heavenly Father loves us. Oh, what great happiness fills 
my heart from knowing God and the divine life! It is my desire to share this 
happiness with all people. I cannot keep this happiness locked in my own heart 
alone, for His flames burn Me and cause my bosom and my entrails to burst 
asunder. I desire to go throughout the whole world and speak to souls about the 
great mercy of God. Priests, help me in this; use the strongest words [at your 
disposal] to proclaim His mercy, for every word falls short of how merciful He really 
is. 

+ 

( 203 ) J.M.J. Cracow, October 20, 1935 

Eight-day Retreat. 

492 Eternal God, Goodness itself, whose mercy is incomprehensible to every intellect, 
whether human or angelic, help me, your feeble child, to do Your holy will as You 
make it known to me. I desire nothing but to fulfill God’s desires. Lord, here are 
my soul and my body, my mind and my will, my heart and all my love. Rule me 
according to Your eternal plans. 

493 After Holy Communion, my soul was again flooded with God’s love. I rejoiced in 
His greatness. Here I see distinctly His will, which I am to carry out, and at the 
same time my own weakness and misery; I see how I can do nothing without His 
help. 

Second Day of Retreat 

494 When I was about to go to the parlor to see Father Andrasz, I felt frightened 
because the secret is binding only in the confessional. This was a groundless fear. 
One word from Mother Superior set me at ease about it. Meanwhile, when I 
entered the chapel, I heard these words in my soul: I want you to be open and 
simple as a child with My representative just as you are with Me; otherwise I 
will leave you and will not commune with you. 



143 




Truly, God gave me the great grace of complete confidence, and after the 
conversation, God granted me the grace of deep peace and light concerning these 
matters. 

495 Jesus, Eternal Light, enlighten my mind, strengthen my will, inflame my heart and 
be with me as You have promised, for without You I am nothing. You know, Jesus, 
how weak I am. I do not need to tell You this, for You Yourself know perfectly well 
how wretched I am. It is in You that all my strength lies. 

496 (204) Confession Day. 

From early morning, the turmoil in my soul was more violent than anything I had 
ever experienced before. Complete abandonment by God; I felt the utter 
weakness that I was. Thoughts bore in upon me: why should I leave this convent 
where I am loved by the sisters and superiors, where life is so tranquil; [where I 
am] bound by perpetual vows and carry out my duties without difficulty; why should 
I listen to the voice of my conscience; why follow an inspiration coming from who 
knows where; wouldn’t it be better to carry on like all the other sisters? Perhaps 
the Lord’s words could be stifled, not taken heed of; maybe God will not demand 
an account of them on the Day of Judgment. Where will this inner voice lead me? 

If I follow it, what tremendous difficulties, tribulations, and adversities are in store 
for me. I fear the future, and I am agonizing in the present. 

This suffering continued with the same intensity throughout the whole day. When, 
in the evening, my turn came for confession, I could not make a full confession, 
even though I had been preparing for a long time. I received absolution and left, 
not knowing what was going on within me. When I went to bed, the suffering grew 
even worse; or rather, it changed into a fire which penetrated all the faculties of my 
soul like lightning, piercing me to the marrow, and to the most secret recesses of 
my heart. In the midst of this suffering, I was unable to bring myself to do anything. 
“Your will be done, Lord.” At times I could not even think these words. Truly, a 
deadly fear had taken hold of me, and the flames of hell were touching me. 

Toward morning, silence set in, and my tribulations disappeared in the twinkling of 
an eye, but I felt so frightfully exhausted that I could not even move. During my 
conversation with Mother Superior, my strength returned bit by bit, but God alone 
knows how I felt throughout that whole day. 

497 O Eternal Truth, Word Incarnate, who most faithfully fulfilled Your Father’s will, 
today I am becoming a martyr of Your inspirations, since I cannot carry them out 
because I have no will of my own, though interiorly I see Your will clearly. (205) I 
submit in everything to the will of my superiors and my confessor. I will follow Your 
will insofar as You will permit me to do so through Your representative. O my 
Jesus, it cannot be helped, but I give priority to the voice of the Church over the 
voice with which You speak to me. 

After Holy Communion 

498 I saw Jesus in the usual way, and He spoke these words to me: Lay your head 
on My shoulder, rest and regain your strength. I am always with you. Tell 
the friend of My Heart that I sue such feeble creatures to carry out My work. 



144 




After a while my spirit was strengthened with great power. Tell him that I had let 
him see your weakness during your confession to show him what you are of 
yourself. 

499 Each battle valiantly fought brings me joy, peace, light, experience and courage for 

the future; honor and glory to god; and in the end, for me, a reward. 

Today is the Feast of Christ the King. 

[October 27, 1935] 

500 During Holy Mass I prayed fervently that Jesus might become King of all hearts and 

that divine grace might shine in every soul. Then I saw Jesus as He is depicted in 
the image, and He said to me, My daughter, you give Me the greatest glory by 
faithfully fulfilling My desires. 

501 Oh, how great is Your beauty, Jesus my Spouse! Living Flower enclosing life-giving 

dew for a thirsting soul! My soul is drowned in You. You alone are the object of 
my desires and strivings. United me as closely as possible to Yourself, to the 
Father, and to the Holy Spirit. Let me live and die in You. 

502 Only love has meaning; it raises up our smallest actions into infinity. 

503 My Jesus, truly I would not know how to live without You - my spirit is welded to 

Yours. No one can really understand this; one must first live in You in order to 
recognize You in others. 

( 206 ) Cracow, 

October 25, 

1935 

Retreat Resolutions. 

504 Not to do anything without the permission of my confessor and the consent of my 

superiors in all things, but especially regarding these inspirations and demands of 
the Lord. 

All my free time I will spend with the Divine Guest within my soul; I will safeguard 
my interior and exterior silence so that Jesus can rest in my heart. 

My sweetest repose will be in serving and obliging the sisters, in forgetting about 
myself and thinking of how to please the sisters. 

I will not offer explanations on my own behalf or seek to vindicate myself when 
criticized; I will let others judge me as they will. 

I have only one trusted Friend in whom I confide everything, and that is Jesus - the 
Eucharist, and His representative - my confessor. 

In the midst of all sufferings, both physical and spiritual, as well as in darkness and 
desolation, I will remain silent, like a dove, and not complain. 



145 




I will empty myself continually at His feet in order to obtain mercy for poor souls. 

505 All my nothingness is drowned in the sea of Your mercy. With the confidence of a 
child, I throw myself into Your arms, O Father of Mercy, to make up for the unbelief 
of so many souls who are afraid to trust in You. Oh, how very few souls really 
know You! How ardently I desire that the Feast of Mercy be known by souls! 
Mercy is the crown of Your works; You provide for all with the love of a most tender 
mother. 



+ 

(207) J.M.J. Cracow, October 27, 1935 

Father Andrasz - Spiritual Counsel. 

506 “Do nothing without the consent of the superiors. One must think this matter over 

thoroughly and pray much. One must be very careful about these things because, 
in your present situation, Sister, the will of God is certain and clear, for you are in 
fact bound to this Congregation by vows, and perpetual vows at that; so there 
should be no doubt. What you are experiencing interiorly, Sister, are only the 
glimmerings of a project. God can make some alterations, but such things are very 
rare. Don’t be in a hurry, Sister, until you have received more precise knowledge. 
The works of God proceed slowly, but if they are of Him, you will surely recognize 
them clearly. If they are not, they will disappear; and you, by being obedient, will 
not go astray. Speak frankly about everything to your confessor and obey him 
blindly. 

“For the present, Sister, there is nothing more for you to do than accept the 
suffering until the time when everything will become clear; that is, all things will be 
resolved. You are well disposed as regards these matters, and so continue in this 
simplicity and spirit of obedience; this is a good sign. If you continue in this 
attitude, God will not allow you to fall into error. Still, as much as is possible, keep 
far away from these things, but if despite that they still come your way, receive 
them calmly and do not fear anything. You are in the good hands of a very good 
God. In all that you have told me, I do not see any illusion or anything contrary to 
faith. These are things which are good in themselves, and it would indeed be good 
if there were a group of souls pleading with God for the world, as well all are in 
need of prayer. You have a good director; stay with him and be at peace. Be 
faithful to God’s will and carry it out. As to your duties, always do what you are told 
to do and as you are told to do it, no matter how humiliating or toilsome it might be. 
Always choose the last place, and then they themselves will say to you, ‘Go up 
higher’ In spirit and in your demeanor, consider yourself the least in the whole 
house and in the entire Congregation. In everything and at all times, be most 
faithful to God.” 

507 (208) I desire, O my Jesus, to suffer and burn with the flame of Your love in all the 
circumstances of my life. I am Yours, completely Yours, and I wish to disappear in 
You, O Jesus, I wish to be lost in Your divine beauty. You pursue me with Your 
love, O Lord; You penetrate my soul like a ray of the sun and change its darkness 
into Your light. I feel very vividly that I am living in You as one small spark 



146 




swallowed up by the incomprehensible fire with which You burn, O inconceivable 
Trinity! No greater joy is to be found than that of loving God. Already here on 
earth we can taste the happiness of those in heaven by an intimate union with 
God, a union that is extraordinary and often quite incomprehensible to us. One 
can attain this very grace through simple faithfulness of soul. 

508 When a reluctance and a monotony as regards my duties begins to take 
possession of me, I remind myself that I am in the house of the Lord, where 
nothing is small and where the glory of the Church and the progress of many a 
soul depend on this small deed of mine, accomplished in a divinized way. 

Therefore there is nothing small in a religious congregation. 

509 In the adversities that I experience, I remind myself that the time for doing battle 
has not yet come to an end. I arm myself with patience, and in this way I defeat 
my assailant. 

51 0 In no way do I seek perfection inquisitively, but I probe into the spirit of Jesus and 
fix my eyes on His deeds as summarized in the Gospel. Even if I live a thousand 
years, I would not exhaust what is contained there. 

51 1 When my intentions are not recognized, but rather condemned, I am not too much 
surprised, for I know that it is only God who scrutinizes my heart. Truth will not die; 
the wounded heart will regain peace in due time, and my spirit is strengthened 
through adversities. I do not always listen to what my heart tells me, but I keep 
asking God for light; and when I feel I have regained my equilibrium, then I say 
more. 

51 2 (209) The day of the renewal of vows. The presence of God flooded my soul. 
During Holy Mass I saw Jesus, and He said to me, You are My great joy; your 
love and your humility make Me leave the heavenly throne and unite Myself 
with you. Love fills up the abyss that exists between My greatness and your 
nothingness. 

513 Love is flooding my soul; I am plunged into an ocean of love. I feel that I am 
swooning and becoming completely lost in Him. 

514 Jesus, make my heart like unto Yours, or rather transform it into Your own Heart 
that I may sense the needs of other hearts, especially those who are sad and 
suffering. May the rays of mercy rest in my heart. 

515 In the evening, when I was walking in the garden saying my rosary and came to 
the cemetery, 102 1 opened the gate a little and began to pray for a while, and I 
asked them interiorly, “You are very happy and you not? Then I heard the words, 
“We are happy in the measure that we have fulfilled God’s will” - and then silence 
as before. I became introspective and reflected for a long time on how I am 
fulfilling God’s will and how I am profiting from the time that God has given me. 

51 6 On the evening of that same day, when I had already gone to bed, a certain soul 
came to me, woke me up by tapping on the night table and asked me to pray for 
her. I wanted to ask who she was, but I mortified my curiosity and joined this little 
mortification to my prayer and offered them for her. 



147 




51 7 Once, when visiting a sick sister 103 who was eighty-four and known for many 
virtues, I asked her, “Sister, you are surely ready to stand before the Lord, are you 
not?” She answered, “I have been preparing myself all my life long for this last 
hour.” And then she added, “Old age does not dispense one from the combat.” 

518 ( 210 ) + Before all Souls’ Day, I went to the cemetery at dusk. Although it was 
locked, I managed to open the gate a bit and said, “If you need something, my 
dear little souls, I will be glad to help you to the extent that the rule permits me.” I 
then heard these words, “Do the will of God; we are happy in the measure that we 
have fulfilled God’s will.” 

51 9 In the evening, these souls came and asked me to pray for them, and I did pray 
very much for them. In the evening, when the procession was returning from the 
cemetery, I saw a great multitude of souls walking with us into the chapel and 
praying with us. I prayed a good deal, for I had my superiors, permission 104 to do 
so. 

520 During the night, a soul I had already seen before visited me. However, it did not 
ask for prayer, but reproached me, saying that I used to be very haughty and 
vain.... “and now you are interceding for others while you yourself still have certain 
vices.” I answered that I indeed had been vain and haughty, but that I had 
confessed this and had done penance for my stupidity, and that I trusted in the 
goodness of my God, and that if I still fell occasionally, this was indeliberate and 
never premeditated, even in the smallest things. Still, the soul continued to 
reproach me, saying, “Why are you unwilling to recognize my greatness? Why do 
you alone not glorify me for my great deeds as all others do?” Then I saw that this 
was Satan under the assumed appearance of this soul and I said, “Glory is due to 
God alone; begone Satan!” And in an instant this soul fell into an abyss, horrible 
beyond all description. And I said to the wretched soul that I would tell the whole 
Church about this. 

521 On Saturday we left Cracow and returned to Vilnius. On the way we visit 
Czestochowa. When I was praying before the miraculous picture, I felt that.... Are 
pleasing.... [unfinished thought], 

[End of Notebook 1] 



148 




The Mercy of the Lord I Will Sing 
Forever 



Divine Mercy in my soul 
Sr. M. Faustina 



Diary 



149 




Notebook II 



NOTEBOOK II 



( 1 ) 

J.M.J. 



522 + The mercy of the Lord I will sing forever, 

Before all the people will I sing it, 
For it is God’s greatest attribute 
And for us an unending miracle. 



You gush forth from the Divine Trinity, 

But from one single womb filled with love. 

The mercy of the Lord will be revealed in the soul 
In all its fullness, when the veil falls. 



From the fountain of Your mercy, O Lord, 

Flows all happiness and life, 

And thus, all creatures and the whole of creation 
Sing out in ecstasy a song of mercy. 



The bowels of God’s mercy are opened for us 
Through the life of Jesus, stretched on the cross. 
O sinner, you must not doubt or despair, 

But trust in mercy, for you also can become holy. 



Two streams in the form of rays 
Flave gushed forth from the Fleart of Jesus 
Not for Angels, nor Cherubim, nor Seraphim, 
But for the salvation of sinful man. 



150 




( 2 ) + 

J.M.J. 



523 



O will of 



God, 



be my 

love. 

My Jesus, You know that of myself I would not have written a single letter, and if I 
do write, it is only because of a clear command of holy obedience. 

God and Souls 



S. M. Faustina 

Of the Blessed Sacrament 105 



524 + O Jesus, hidden God, 

My heart perceives You 
Though veils hide You; 
You know that I love You 



( 3 ) + 

J.M.J 

1935 

Two 



Vilnius, November 24, 
+ Notebook 



Blessed Be God! 

525 O Holy Trinity, in whom is contained the inner life of God, the Father, the Son, and 
the Holy Spirit, eternal joy, inconceivable depth of love, poured out upon all 
creatures and constituting their happiness, honor and glory be to Your holy name 
forever and ever. Amen. 

When I consider Your greatness and beauty. O my God, I rejoice exceedingly that 
the Lord I serve is so great. With love and joy I carry out His will, and the more I 
come to know Him, the more I desire to love Him. I burn with the desire to love 
Him ever more and more. 



151 




526 (4) + The 14 th . This Thursday, when we were having nocturnal adoration, at first I 
could not pray; a sort of dryness engulfed me. I could not meditate on Jesus’ 
sorrowful Passion. So I lay prostrate and offered the most sorrowful Passion of the 
Lord Jesus to the heavenly Father in reparation for the sins of all the world. When 

I got to my feet after this prayer and walked to my kneeler, I suddenly saw Jesus 
next to it. The Lord Jesus appeared as He was during the scourging. In His hands 
He was holding a white garment with which He clothed me and a cord with which 
He girded me, and He covered me with a red cloak like the one He was clothed 
with during His Passion and a veil of the same color, and He said to me, This is 
how you and your companions are going to be clothed. My life from birth to 
death on the Cross will be the rule for you. Fix your eyes upon Me and live 
according to what you see. I desire that you penetrate into My spirit more 
deeply and understand (5) that I am meek and humble of heart. 

527 On one occasion, I felt an urge to set to work and fulfill whatever God is 
demanding of me. I entered the chapel for a moment and heard a voice in my soul 
saying, Why are you afraid? Do you think that I will not have enough 
omnipotence to support you? At that moment, my soul felt extraordinary 
strength, and all the adversities that could befall me in carrying out God’s will 
seemed as nothing to me. 

528 On Friday, during Mass, when my soul was flooded with God’s happiness, I heard 
these words in my soul: My mercy has passed into souls through the divine- 
human Heart of Jesus as a ray from the sun passes through crystal. I felt in 
my heart and understood that every approach to God is brought about by Jesus, in 
Him and through Him. 

529 (6) On the evening of the last day [November 1 5] of the novena at Ostra Brama, 
after the singing of the litany, one of the priests exposed the Blessed Sacrament in 
the monstrance. When he placed it on the altar, I immediately saw the Infant 
Jesus, stretching out His little arms, first of all toward His Mother, who at that time 
had taken on a living appearance. When the Mother of God was speaking to me, 
Jesus stretched out His tiny hands toward the congregation. The Blessed Mother 
was telling me to accept all that God asked of me like a little child, without 
questioning; otherwise it would not be pleasing to God. At that moment, the Infant 
Jesus vanished, and the Mother of God was again lifeless, and Her picture was the 
same as it had been before. But my soul was filled with great joy and gladness, 
and I said to the Lord, “Do with me as You please; I am ready for everything, but 
You, O Lord, must not abandon me even for a moment.” 

( 7 ) + 

J.M.J. 

530 To the Glory of the Holy Trinity. 

I asked Mother Superior [Borgia] to permit me to make a forty-day fast, taking once 
a day a piece of bread and a glass of water. However, following the advice of my 
confessor [Father Sopocko], Mother Superior did not agree to forty days, but to 
seven. “I cannot take you away from your duties completely, Sister, because of 
the other sisters who might notice something. I give you my permission to devote 



152 




yourself to prayer and to note down some of these things, but it will be very difficult 
for me to protect you are regards the fasting. Really, I can think of no solution to 
this,” and she said, “Go now, Sister, and perhaps some light will come to me.” On 
Sunday morning, I understood that when Mother Superior assigned me as portress 
during mealtime, she was doing so with the thought of giving me the opportunity to 
fast. In the morning, I did not go to breakfast, but, a little while later, I went (8) to 
Mother Superior and asked her whether I had been assigned as portress in view of 
making it possible for me to fast unnoticed. Mother replied, “When I assigned 
you, 106 Sister, it was with this in mind.” I then saw that this was the same thought 
that I had had interiorly. 

531 November 24, 1935. Sunday, first day. I went at once before the Blessed 
Sacrament and offered myself with Jesus, present in the Most Holy Sacrament, to 
the Everlasting Father. Then I heard these words in my soul: Your purpose and 
that of your companions is to unite yourselves with Me as closely as 
possible; through love You will reconcile earth with heaven, you will soften 
the just anger of God, and you will plead for mercy for the world. I place in 
your care two pearls very precious to My Heart: these are the souls of 
priests and religious. You will pray particularly for them; their power will 
come from your diminishment. You will join prayers, fasts, mortifications, 
labors (9) and all sufferings to My prayer, fasting, mortifications, labors and 
sufferings and then they will have power before My Father. 

532 After Holy Communion, I saw the Lord Jesus, who said these words to me: 

Today, penetrate into the spirit of My poverty and arrange everything in such 
a way that the most destitute will have no reason to envoy you. I find 
pleasure, not in large buildings and magnificent structures, but in a pure and 
humble heart. 

533 When I was by myself, I began to reflect on the spirit of poverty. I clearly saw that 
Jesus, although He is Lord of all things, possessed nothing. From a borrowed 
manger He went through life doing good to all, but Himself having no place to lay 
His head. And on the Cross, I see the summit of his poverty, for He does not even 
have a garment on Himself. O Jesus, through a solemn vow poverty I desire to 
become like You; poverty will be my mother. (10) As exteriorly we should possess 
nothing and have nothing to dispose of as our own; so interiorly we should desire 
nothing. And in the Most Blessed Sacrament, how great is Your poverty! Has 
there ever been a soul as abandoned as You were on the Cross, Jesus? 

534 Chastity. There is no need to explain that this vow forbids all those things 
prohibited by the sixth and ninth commandments: deeds, thoughts, words, 

feelings I understand that a solemn vow differs from a simple vow; I understand 

this in all its implications. While reflecting upon this, I heard these words in my 
soul: You are My spouse forever; your chastity should be greater than that of 
the angels, for I call no angel to such intimacy as I do you. The smallest act 
of My spouse is of infinite value. A pure soul has inconceivable power 
before God. 

535 (11) Obedience. I have come to do My Father’s will. I obeyed My parents, I 
obeyed My tormentors and now I obey the priests. I understand, O Jesus, the 



153 




spirit of obedience and in what it consists. It includes not only external 
performance, but also the reason, the will and judgment. Obeying our superiors, 
we obey God. It makes no difference whether it is an angel or a man who, acting 
in God’s stead, gives me orders; I must always obey. I am not going to write much 
about the vows; they are clear and specific. I will rather put down a few general 
thoughts about this congregation. 

+ General Summary. 

536 There will never be any splendid houses, but only a small church with a small 
community consisting of a few souls, not more than ten, plus two externs to look 
after the external affairs (12) of the community and the church. These two sisters 
will not wear the habit, but secular dress; they will take simple vows, and they will 
depend strictly on the superior who will be cloistered. They will share in all the 
spiritual benefits of the congregation. There must never be more than two and, 
preferably, only one. Each house will be independent of the others, although they 
will be closely united by the rule, the vows and the spirit. In exceptional cases, 
however, a sister from one community may be transferred to another and also, if 
there is question of founding a new house, some sisters may be transferred, if 
need be, from another house. Each house will depend on the local ordinary. 

537 Each sister will have a separate cell, but life will be communal as regards prayer, 
meals and recreation. Each nun, after her profession, ( 13 ) will no longer see the 
world, even through a grill, as this will be covered with a dark cloth, and even the 
conversations will be strictly limited. She will be as if dead, not understood by the 
world and not understanding the world. She is to stand between heaven and 
earth, begging God constantly for mercy on the world and that priests be 
empowered so that their words be not empty and that they, in their extraordinary 
dignity and so exposed to risks, might keep themselves completely stainless. 
Though these souls will not be numerous, they will be heroic souls. There will be 
no room for cowardly or effeminate souls. 

538 There will be no distinction between the sisters, no mothers, 107 no reverends, no 
venerables, but all will be equal, even though there might be great differences in 
their parentage. We know who Jesus was, and yet how He humbled Himself and 
wish whom He associated Their habit will be like that worn by Jesus during His 
Passion, and they will not simply wear the robe [He wore]; ( 14 ) they must also seal 
themselves with the marks He bore: suffering and scorn. Each one will strive for 
the greatest self-denial and have a love of humility, and she who will distinguish 
herself most in this latter virtue will be the one who is capable of leading the others. 

539 As God has made us sharers in His mercy and even more than that, dispensers of 
that mercy, we should therefore have great love for each soul, beginning with the 
elect and ending with the soul that does not yet know God. By prayer and 
mortification, we will make our way to the most uncivilized countries, paving the 
way for the missionaries. We will bear in mind that a soldier on the front line 
cannot hold out long without support from the rear forces that do not actually take 
part in the fighting but provide for all his needs; and that such is the role of prayer, 
and that therefore each one of us is to be distinguished by an apostolic spirit. 



154 




540 (15) In the evening when I was writing, I heard a voice in my cell which said, “Do 
not leave this Congregation; have mercy upon yourself, such great sufferings are 
in store for you.” When I looked in the direction of the voice, I saw nothing, and I 
continued to write. Suddenly, I heard a noise and the words: “When you leave, we 
will destroy you. Do not torture us.” I glanced around and saw many ugly 
monsters. So I mentally made the Sign of the Cross and they disappeared 
immediately. How terribly ugly Satan is! The poor damned souls that have to keep 
him company! Just the sight of him is more disgusting than all the torments of hell. 

541 A short time later, I heard this voice in my soul: Do not fear anything; nothing 
will happen to you against My will. After these words of the Lord, a strange 
power entered my soul. I rejoiced greatly that God is so good. 

542 (16) Postulancy. 108 Age of admission: any person between the ages of fifteen and 
thirty. Firstly, the spirit with which the candidate is imbued and her character are to 
be taken into consideration, whether she has a strong will and the courage to 
follow in Jesus’ footsteps with joy and gladness, as God loves a cheerful giver. 

She must despise the world and herself. The lack of a dowry will never be an 
obstacle to admission. All formalities concerning the candidate must be clear; no 
complicated cases should be admitted. 

Melancholy persons, those disposed to sadness, those suffering from contagious 
diseases, those of an unstable character and those who are inclined to be 
suspicious of others are not adaptable to the religious life and must not be 
admitted. Members should be selected with greatest care, as one ill-fitting 
member is enough to throw the whole convent into confusion. 

543 The duration of the postulancy. The postulancy will last one year. (17) During this 
time, the candidate should examine whether she is attracted to this type of life and 
whether it is suitable to her. The directress should also diligently consider whether 
or not the person in question is suitable for this type of life. After a year, if the 
postulant shows evidence of a stable will and an earnest desire to serve God, she 
should be admitted to the novitiate. 

544 The novitiate 109 is to last one year, without any interruption. At this time the novice 
should be taught about the virtues relating to the vows and about the importance of 
the vows. The directress should do her utmost to provide a solid formation. Let 
her train the novices in the practice of humility, because only a humble heart keeps 
the vows easily and experiences the great joys that God pours out upon the faithful 
soul. 

The novices should not be burdened with duties that entail responsibilities, so that 
they may be free to devote themselves to their own perfection. They are obliged to 
observe the rules and statutes strictly, as are the postulants. 

545 (18) After a year of novitiate, if the novice proves faithful, she may be admitted to 
make her profession for one year. This is to be repeated for three years. She may 
then be given duties of responsibility. However, she will still belong to the 
novitiate, and once a week she must attend conferences together with the novices, 



155 




and she will spend the last six months entirely in the novitiate in order to prepare 
well for her solemn profession. 110 

546 Meals. We will have no meat. Our meals shall be such that not even the poor will 
have any reason to envy us. Still, feast days may differ slightly from regular days. 
The sisters will eat three times a day. Fasts, especially the two great ones, will be 
observed strictly, according to the original spirit. The food should be the same for 
all the nuns without ( 19 ) exception so that communal life may be kept pure. This 
refers not only to food but to clothing and the furnishing of cells as well. However, 
if a sister should fall ill, she should receive every consideration. 

547 Prayers. One hour of meditation, Holy Mass and Holy Communion, prayers, two 
examinations of conscience, office, 111 rosary, spiritual reading, one hour of prayer 
during the night. As to the horarium, it is better to draw it up after we have begun 
to live this type of life. 

548 Suddenly I head these words in my soul: My daughter, I assure you of a 
permanent income on which you will live. Your duty will be to trust 
completely in My goodness, and My duty will be to give you all you need. I 
am making Myself dependent upon your trust: if your trust is great, then My 
generosity will be without limit. 

549 ( 20 ) Work. As poor persons, the nuns themselves will do all the work in the 
convent. Each one should be glad when she is given some work which is 
humbling or which goes against her nature, as that will greatly help her interior 
formation. The superior will often change the sisters’ duties, and in this way help 
them to detach themselves completely from the little details to which women have 
a great attachment. Truly, I often find it amusing to see with my own eyes souls 
who have forsaken really great things only to attach themselves to fiddle faddle; 
that is, trifles. Each sister, including even the superior, shall work in the kitchen for 
a month. Every one should take a turn at every chore which is to be done in the 
convent. 

550 And always and in everything, their intention should be pure, for every sort of 
mixed motive is displeasing to God. They should accuse themselves of all external 
transgressions, ( 21 ) and ask the Superior for a penance. They should do this in a 
spirit of humility. 

They should love one another with a sublime love, with a pure love, seeing God’s 
likeness in every sister. Love should be the special characteristic of this little 
community, so they must not close up their hearts, but embrace the whole world, 
rendering mercy to every soul through prayer, according to their calling. If we live 
in this spirit of mercy, we ourselves will obtain mercy. 

551 How great should each one’s love for the Church be! As a good child prays for the 
mother it loves, so also should every Christian soul pray for the Church, its Mother. 
What then should be said of us religious who have especially committed ourselves 
to praying for the Church? How great, then, is our apostolate, hidden though it be. 
All our little daily nothings will be placed at the feet of the Lord Jesus as a 
propitiatory offering for the world; but in order that (22) our offering may be 



156 




pleasing to God, it must be pure. And for it to be pure, the heart must be freed of 
all natural attachments, and all its affections must be directed towards the Creator, 
loving all creatures in Him and according to His will; and, acting thus, each with a 
zealous spirit will bring joy to the Church. 

552 In addition to the vows, I see one rule as most important. Although all the rules are 
important, I put this one in first place, and it is silence. Truly, if this rule were to be 
observed strictly, I would not worry about the others. Women are very fond of 
talking, but the Holy Spirit does not speak to a soul that is distracted and garrulous. 
He speaks by His quiet inspirations to a soul that is recollected, to a soul that 
knows how to keep silence. If silence were strictly observed, there would not be 
any grumbling, bitterness, slandering, or gossip, and charity would not be 
tarnished. (23) In a word, many wrongs would not be done. Silent lips are pure 
gold and bear witness to holiness within. 

553 But I want to speak immediately of a second rule; that is, speech. Keeping silent 
when one ought to speak is an imperfection and sometimes even a sin. And so, let 
all the sisters take part in recreation, and the superior should not dispense them 
from this except for a matter of great importance. Recreation is an opportunity for 
getting to know one another. Let each sister speak her mind in all simplicity for the 
edification of the others and not in a spirit of superiority nor, God forbid, in a 
quarrelsome manner, for that would not be in keeping with perfection and the spirit 
of our vocation, which should be especially characterized by love. Twice a day, 
there will be a recreation of one half hour. But if a sister breaks silence outside 
that time, ( 24 ) she must accuse herself before the Superior at once and ask for a 
penance, and the Superior should punish these offenses with public penances, or 
else she will answer for this before the Lord. 

554 Enclosure. 112 No one may enter the enclosure without the special permission of 
the Ordinary and under very special circumstances, such as the administration of 
the Sacraments to the ill in order to prepare them for death, and for the burial rites. 
There also may be need of letting in a workman to do some repairs, but for this a 
specific permission will be required. The door to the enclosure will always be 
locked and only the Superior will have the key. 

555 The use of the parlor. None of the sisters will make use of the parlor without 
special permission of the Superior, and the Superior should not permit frequent 
visits. ( 25 ) Those who have died to the world should not be going back to it, not 
even through conversations. But if the Superior thinks it right to permit some sister 
to go to the parlor, let her observe the following directions. She herself should 
accompany the sister, and if she cannot do so, she should arrange to be replaced 
by a sister who will be bound to confidence and must not repeat what she has 
heard, but who is to inform the Superior of everything. Conversations ought to be 
short, unless there is permission for extra time for the sake of the person who has 
come for the visit. However, the curtain is not to be drawn aside, except for very 
special cases, as for example when a mother or father urgently asks that this be 
done. 

556 Letters. Every sister may write sealed letters to the Ordinary to whom the house is 
subject. For any other letter, permission is required, and the sister shall hand the 



157 




letter unsealed to the Superior. The Superior is to be guided by the spirit of love 
(26) and prudence, and has the right to send or withhold the letter, in the light of 
whatever is for the greater glory of God. However, I would like very much that 
such communications be as rare as possible. Let us help people by prayer and 
mortification, and not by correspondence. 

557 Confession. Both the regular and the extraordinary confessors for the community 
will be appointed by the Ordinary [Bishop]. 113 There will be one regular confessor, 
and he will hear the sisters’ confessions once a week. The extraordinary 
confessor will come once every three months, and each sister is obliged to see 
him, even if she makes no confession. The two confessors will hold their posts in 
the convent for three years. Then there will be a secret vote, and the Superior will 
submit the results to the Ordinary. The confessor can be re-appointed for an 
additional three years and even a third three-year term. (27) The sisters will make 
their confession through a locked grille. The conferences to the community will 
also be given through a grille, covered with a dark curtain. The sisters will never 
talk among themselves about confession or the confessors; rather, let them pray 
for them that God may give them the light to direct their souls. 

558 Holy Communion. The sisters should never talk about who goes more and who 
goes less frequently to Holy Communion. They should refrain from passing 
judgment on this subject which does not concern them. All judgments in this 
matter belong exclusively to the confessor. The Superior may speak to a sister, 
not to inquire why she is not going to Communion, but simply to make confession 
available to her. The superiors should never dare to enter into the domain of the 
sisters’ consciences. The Superior may sometimes arrange that the community 
offer (28) Communion for a certain intention. Each sister should strive for the 
greatest purity of soul, so that she might receive the Divine Visitor every day. 

559 On one occasion, when I entered the chapel, I saw the walls of a building in a state 
of disrepair [a torn down building], 1 14 The windows were without panes, and the 
doors had only frames with no paneling. Then I heard these words in my soul: 

This is where the convent will be, I was a little disappointed that these ruins 
were to be the convent. 

560 Thursday. I felt urged to undertake as soon as possible the task which the Lord 
was asking of me. While making my confession, I was holding to my own opinion 
over that of the confessor. At first, I did not realize this, but when I was making my 
Holy Hour I saw the Lord Jesus (29) as He appears in the Image, and He told me 
that I must repeat to my confessor and my superiors everything He says to me or 
asks of me. . . . and do only what you receive permission to do. And He gave 
me to know how displeased He was with persons who are self-willed, and I 
recognized that I was one of these. I saw this shadow of self-will in myself, and I 
threw myself in the dust 115 before His Majesty and, with a broken heart, begged His 
pardon. But Jesus did not let me remain in this state for long. His divine gaze 
filled my heart with such joy that I have no words to express it. And Jesus gave 
me to know that I should ask Him more questions and seek His advice. Truly, how 
sweet is the look of my Lord; His eyes penetrate my soul to its most secret depths. 
My spirit communicates with God without any word being spoken. I am aware that 
He is living in me and I in Him. 



158 




561 (30) All at once, I saw the image in some small chapel and at that moment I saw 
that chapel became an enormous and beautiful temple. And in this temple I saw 
the Mother of God with the Infant in Her arms. And a moment later, the infant 
Jesus disappeared from the arms of His Mother, and I saw the living image of 
Jesus Crucified. The Mother of God told me to do what She had done, that, even 
when joyful, I should always keep my eyes fixed on the cross, and She told me that 
the graces God was granting me were not for me alone, but for other souls as well. 

562 When I see the Infant Jesus during Holy Mass, it is not always the same: 
sometimes He is very joyous, and sometimes He is not even looking at the chapel. 
At present, He is often very joyful when our confessor [Father Sopocko] offers Holy 
Mass. I was greatly surprised that the Infant Jesus loves him so much. 

Sometimes I see Him dressed in a colorful pinafore. 110 

563 (31) Before I came to Vilnius and met this confessor, I once saw a rather small 
church and near it, this congregation. 117 The convent had twelve cells: each nun 
was to live separately. I saw the priest [Father Sopocko] who was helping me to 
prepare the convent and whom I was to meet some years later, but whom I already 
knew from the vision. I saw how he was arranging everything in the convent with 
great care, assisted by another priest [probably Father Wantuchowski 118 ] whom I 
have not yet met. I saw the iron grating, covered with a dark curtain, and the 
sisters did not go out to the church. 

564 On the feast day of the Immaculate Conception of the Mother of God, during Holy 
Mass, I heard the rustling of garments and saw the most holy Mother of God in a 
most beautiful radiance. Her white garment was girdled with a blue (32) sash. 

She said to me, You give Me great joy when you adore The Holy Trinity for the 
graces and privileges which were accorded Me. And She immediately 
disappeared. 

Penances and Mortification. 

565 Interior mortifications take the first place, but besides this, we must practice 
exterior mortifications, strictly determined, so that all can practice them. These 
are: on three days a week, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday, there will be a strict 
fast; each Friday, all the sisters - each one in her own cell - will take the 
discipline 119 for the length of the recitation of Psalm 50, and all will do this at the 
same time; namely, three o’clock; and this will be offered for dying sinners. During 
the two great fasts, 120 ember days 121 and vigils, 122 the food will consist of a piece of 
bread and some water, once a day. 

Let each sister try to observe these mortifications which are prescribed (33) for all. 
But if anyone desires to do something more, she should ask the superior for 
permission. One more general mortification: no sister is allowed to enter the cell 
of another without special permission from the Superior, but the Superior should 
sometimes unexpectedly enter the cells of the sisters, not in order to spy, but in the 
spirit of love and the responsibility which she has before God. None of the sisters 
will lock anything; the rule will be the general key for all. 



159 




566 



One day, after Holy Communion, I suddenly saw the Infant Jesus standing by my 
kneeler and holding on to it with His two little hands. Although He was but a little 
Child, my soul was filled with awe and fear, for I see in Him my Judge, my Lord, 
and my Creator, before whose holiness the Angeles tremble. At the same time, 
my soul was flooded with such unspeakable ( 34 ) love that I thought I would die 
under its influence. I now see that Jesus first strengthens my soul and makes it 
capable of abiding with Him, for otherwise I would not be able to bear what I 
experience at such a moment. 

Relationship of Sisters with the Superior 

567 All the sisters should respect the Superior as the Lord Jesus himself, as I 
mentioned when speaking about the vow of obedience. They should behave 
toward her with childlike trust, and should never murmur or find fault with her 
commands, as this is very displeasing to God. Let each be guided by a spirit of 
faith in her relationship to superiors; let her ask with simplicity for all that she 
needs. God forbid that it ever happen or be repeated that any of the sisters would 
be a cause of sorrow or tears to the Superior. Let each one know that as the 
fourth commandment obliges a child to honor its parents, in like manner is the 
religious bound to respect her Superior. Only a bad ( 35 ) religious would take the 
liberty of judging her Superior. Let the sisters be sincere with the Superior, telling 
her about everything and about their needs with childlike simplicity. 

The sisters will address the Superior thus: “With your leave, Sister Superior.” 

They shall never kiss her hand, but whenever they meet her in the corridor or enter 
her cell, they should say, “Praised be Jesus Christ,” bowing their heads slightly. 

They shall address each other as “Sister,” adding the proper name. Their 
relationship toward the Superior should be marked by a spirit of faith and not by 
sentimentality or flattery, as these are unworthy of a religious and would degrade 
her very much. A religious should be as free as a queen, and will be such only 
when she lives in the spirit of faith. We should obey and respect the Superior, not 
because she is good, holy or prudent, but solely because she represents God, and 
by obeying her we are obeying God Himself. 

( 36 ) Relationship of the Superior to the Sisters. 

568 The Superior should be distinguished by humility and love toward each sister 
without exception. She must not let herself be led by likes and dislikes, but by the 
spirit of Christ alone. Let her be aware that God will demand of her an account for 
each sister. She should not moralize to the sisters, but rather set them an example 
of profound humility and self-denial; this will be the most efficacious lesson she can 
give her subjects. She should be firm, but never harsh. She should be patient 
when bothered with the same questions. Even if she has to give the same answer 
a hundred times over, she should do so with equanimity. Let her strive to 
anticipate the sisters’ needs rather than wait till they ask for this or that, for people 
vary in disposition. 

If the Superior notices that a sister is sad or is suffering, she should try her very 
best to help and comfort her. She should pray much and ask for light ( 37 ) in order 



160 




to know how to deal with each sister, for each soul is a world of its own. God has 
various ways of communicating with souls, ways that are often beyond our 
comprehension and notice. Therefore, the Superior should be careful not to hinder 
God’s action in a soul. She should never reprimand a sister when irritated; rather, 
reprimands should always be seasoned with encouragement. The person is to be 
helped to recognize and acknowledge her error, but she should not be crushed. 

The Superior should be outstanding for a love for her sisters which shows itself in 
actions. She should take upon herself all burdens so as to ease the burdens of the 
sisters. She should not demand any services from them, but should respect them 
as brides of Jesus and be always ready to serve them, day and night. Let her ask 
rather than order. Her heart should be open to the sufferings of the sisters, and 
she herself should look closely at, and learn from, the open book; namely, Jesus 
Crucified. Let her pray fervently for light, especially when she has some important 
dealing with a (38) sister. She should be on her guard lest she interfere with the 
sisters’ consciences, for only a priest has this grace. But it may happen that a 
sister may feel the necessity to pour out her soul to the Superior, in which case the 
Superior may listen to this outpouring, but she is bound to secrecy, as nothing 
hurts a person so much as to have something she has said in confidence or in 
secret talked about with others. Women usually have weak heads in this respect; 
it is rarely that one finds a woman with a man’s mind. The Superior should strive 
for deep union with God, and God will govern through her. The most holy Mother 
will be the Superior 123 of the convent, and we shall be Her faithful daughters. 

569 December 15, 1935. From early morning, today, a strange power has been 
pushing me to action, not giving me a moment’s peace. A strange ardor has been 
lit in my heart, urging me to action, and I cannot stop it. This is a secret martyrdom 
known only to God, but let Him do (39) with me as He pleases; my heart is ready 
for anything. O Jesus, my dearest Master, do not abandon me, not even for a 
moment. Jesus, You know well how weak I am of myself; that is why I know that it 
is my weakness that forces You to be with me constantly. 

570 On one occasion, I saw Jesus in a bright garment; this was in the greenhouse. [He 
said to me,] Write what I say to you. My delight is to be united with you. With 
great desire, I wait and long for the time when I shall take up My residence 
sacramentally in your convent. My spirit will rest in that convent and I will 
bless its neighborhood in a special way. Out of love for you all, I will avert 
any punishments which are rightly meted out by My Father’s justice. My 
daughter, I have inclined My heart to your requests. Your assignment and 
duty here on earth is to beg for mercy for (40) the whole world. No soul will 
be justified until it turns with confidence to My mercy, and this is why the 
first Sunday after Easter is to be the Feast of Mercy. On that day, priests are 
to tell everyone about My great and unfathomable mercy. I am making you 
the administrator of My mercy. Tell the confessor that the Image is to be on 
view in the church and not within the enclosure in that convent. By means of 
this Image I shall be granting many graces to souls; so, let every soul have 
access to it. 

571 O my Jesus, Eternal Truth, I fear nothing, neither hardships nor sufferings; I fear 
only one thing, and that is to offend You. My Jesus, I would rather not exist than 



161 




make You sad. Jesus, You know that my love knows no one but You. My soul is 
absorbed in You. 

572 (41) Oh, how great should be the ardor of every soul who will live in that convent, 
since God desires to come and live with us! Let everyone remember that if we 
religious do not intercede before God, who will? Each of us should burn like a pure 
sacrifice before the majesty of God, but to be pleasing to God, each one should 
unite herself closely to Jesus. It is only with Him, in Him, and through Him that we 
can be pleasing to God. 

573 December 21 , 1 935. One day, my confessor [Father Sopocko] told me to go and 
look at a certain house to see whether it was the same house I had seen in my 
vision. When I went with my confessor to see that house, or rather those ruins, at 
a glance I recognized that they were the same as I had seen in my vision. The 
moment I touched the boards which had been nailed together in place of the doors, 
a strength pervaded my soul like a flash, giving me (42) unshakable certitude. I 
went away quickly from that place, my heart full of joy, for it seemed to me that 
there was a certain force chaining me to that place. 

I am very happy to see that everything agrees perfectly with what I saw in the 
vision. When the confessor spoke to me about the arrangement of the cells and 
other things, I recognized everything to be the same as had been told to me by 
Jesus. I am delighted that God is acting in this way through my confessor, but I 
am not surprised that God is giving him so much light; since God, who is Light 
itself, lives in a pure and humble heart, and all sufferings and adversities serve but 
to reveal the soul’s holiness. When I returned home, I went immediately to our 
chapel to rest a while. Then, suddenly, I heard these words in my soul: Do not 
fear anything. I am with you. These matters are in My hands and I will bring 
them to fruition according to My mercy, for nothing can oppose My will. 

(43) Christmas Eve, 1935. 

574 From early morning, my spirit was immersed in God. His presence pervaded my 
whole being. In the evening, before supper, I went to the chapel for a minute to 
share the wafer, at the feet of Jesus, with those who are far away and whom Jesus 
loves greatly and to whom I owe so much. Just as I was spiritually sharing the 
wafer with a certain person [probably Father Sopocko], I heard these words within 
me: His heart is, for Me, a heaven on earth. When I was leaving the chapel, in 
an instant, God’s omnipotence enveloped me. I understood how greatly God loves 
us. Oh, if people could at least partly comprehend and understand this! 

Christmas Day. 

575 Midnight Mass. During Holy Mass, I again saw the little Infant Jesus, extremely 
beautiful, joyfully stretching out His little arms to me. (44) After Holy Communion, I 
heard the words: I am always in your heart; not only when you receive Me in 
Holy Communion, but always. I spent these holydays in great joy. 

576 O Holy Trinity, Eternal God, my spirit is drowned in Your beauty. The ages are as 
nothing in Your sight. You are always the same. Oh, how great is Your majesty. 



162 




Jesus, why do You conceal Your majesty, why have You left Your heavenly throne 
and dwelt among us? The Lord answered me, My daughter, love has brought 
Me here, and love keeps Me here. My daughter, if you knew what great merit 
and reward is earned by one act of pure love for Me, you would die of joy. I 
am saying this that you may constantly unite yourself with Me through love, 
for this is the goal of the life of your soul. This act is an act of the will. Know 
that a pure soul is humble. (45) When you lower and empty yourself before 
My majesty, I then pursue you with My graces and make use of My 
omnipotence to exalt you. 

577 Once, when my confessor told me to say “Glory be to the Father” as my penance, 

it took me a very long time; and I began many times, but did not finish, because my 
spirit became united with God, and I could not stick to the prayer. Quite frequently, 
I am unwittingly enveloped by God’s omnipotence and become entirely plunged in 
Him through love, and then I do not know what is going on around me. When I told 
my confessor that this short prayer often takes very much of my time and that 
sometimes I cannot even finish it, he told me to say it right away, there, at the 
confessional. However, my spirit became immersed in God and, in spite of my 
efforts, I could not think as I wished. And so the confessor said, “Please repeat 
after me.” (46) I repeated every word, but while I was pronouncing each word, my 
spirit would be steeped in the person I was naming. 

578 On one occasion, Jesus told me, concerning a certain priest [probably Father 
Sopocko], that these present years would be the adornment of his priestly life. The 
days of suffering always seem longer, but they too will pass, though they pass so 
slowly that it seems they are moving backwards. However, their end is near, and 
then will come endless and inconceivable joy. Eternity! Who can understand this 
one word which comes from You, O incomprehensible God, this one word: 
eternity! 

579 I know that the graces given me by God are often meant exclusively for certain 
souls. Awareness of this fills me with great joy; I always rejoice at the good of 
other souls as if it were my own. 

580 (47) On a certain occasion, the Lord said to me, I am more deeply wounded by 
the small imperfections of chosen souls than by the sins of those living in 
the world. It made me very sad that chosen souls make Jesus suffer, and Jesus 
told me, These little imperfections are not all. I will reveal to you a secret of 
My Heart: what I suffer from chosen souls. Ingratitude in return for so many 
graces is My Heart’s constant food, on the part of [such] a chosen soul. 

Their love is lukewarm, and My Heart cannot bear it; these souls force Me to 
reject them. Others distrust My goodness and have no desire to experience 
that sweet intimacy in their own hearts, but go in search of Me, off in the 
distance, and do not find Me. This distrust of My goodness hurts Me very 
much. If My death has not convinced you of My love, what will? Often a soul 
wounds Me mortally, and then no one can comfort Me. (48) They use My 
graces to offend Me. There are souls who despise My graces as well as all 
the proofs of My love. They do not wish to hear My call, but proceed into the 
abyss of hell. The loss of these souls plunges Me into deadly sorrow. God 
though I am, I cannot help such a soul because it scorns Me; having a free 



163 




will, it can spurn Me or love Me. You, who are the dispenser of My mercy, tell 
all the world about My goodness, and thus you will comfort My Heart. 



581 

582 



583 

584 

585 



586 



I will tell you most when you converse with Me In the depths of your heart. 
Here, no one can disturb My actions. Here, I rest as in a garden enclosed. 

The interior of my soul is like a large and magnificent world in which God and I live. 
Except for God, no one is allowed there. At the beginning of this life with God, (49) 
I was dazzled and overcome with awe. His radiance blinded me, and I thought He 
was not in my heart; and yet those were the moments when God was working in 
my soul. Love was becoming purer and stronger, and the Lord brought my will into 
the closest union with His own holy will. No one will understand what I experience 
in that splendid palace of my soul where I abide constantly with my Beloved. No 
exterior thing hinders my union with God. Even if I used the most forceful words, 
they would not express even a shadow of how my soul revels in happiness and 
inexplicable love, as great and pure as the spring from which it flows; that is, God 
Himself. My spirit is so pervaded with God that I feel it physically, and the body 
partakes of these joys. Although it happens that God’s touch varies in the same 
soul, it comes, however, from the same source. 

(50) On one occasion, I saw Jesus thirsting and fainting, and He said to me, I 
thirst. When I gave Him water, He took it, but did not drink and immediately 
disappeared. He was clothed as He was during His Passion. 

When you reflect upon what I tell you in the depths of your heart, you profit 
more than if you had read many books. Oh, if souls would only want to 
listen to My voice when I am speaking in the depths of their hearts, they 
would reach the peak of holiness in a short time. 

January 8, 1936. When I went to see the Archbishop [Jalbrzykowski], I told him 
that Jesus was asking that I pray for God’s mercy upon the world and that there be 
a religious congregation which would entreat the mercy of God for the world. I 
asked his permission for all the Lord Jesus was demanding of me. The Arch (51) 
bishop answered me in these words: “As for prayer, I give my permission and 
even encourage you, Sister, to pray as much as possible for the world and to beg 
God’s mercy, as mercy is what we all need; and I presume that your confessor 
certainly does not forbid you to pray for this intention. But as regards this 
congregation, wait a while, Sister, so that all things may arrange themselves more 
favorably. This thing is good in itself, but there is no need to hurry. If it is God’s 
will, it will be done, whether it be a little sooner or a little later. Why shouldn’t it be? 
There are so many different kinds of congregations; this one too will come to be if 
God so wills. Be completely at peace. The Lord Jesus can do all things. Strive for 
a close union with God and do not lose heart.” These words filled me with great 
joy. 

When I left the Archbishop’s house, I heard the following words in my soul: To 

confirm your spirit, (52) I speak through My representatives in accordance 
with what I demand of you, but know that this will not always be so. They 
will oppose you in many things, and through this My grace will be manifest 
in you, and it will be evident that this matter is My doing. But as for you, fear 



164 




nothing; I am always with you. And know this, too, My daughter: all 
creatures, whether they know it or not, and whether they want to or not, 
always fulfill My will. 

587 Once, I suddenly saw Jesus in great majesty, and He spoke these words to 
me: My daughter, if you wish, I will this instant create a new world, more 
beautiful than this one, and you will live there for the rest of your life. I 

answered, “I don’t want any worlds. I want You, Jesus. I want to love You, with 
the same love that You have for me. I beg You for only one thing: to make my 
heart capable of loving You. (53) I am very much surprised at Your offer, my 
Jesus; what are those worlds to me? Even if You gave me a thousand of them, 
what are they to me? You know very well, Jesus, that my heart is dying of longing 
for You. Everything that is not You is nothing to me.” - At that moment, I could no 
longer see anything, but a strange force took over my soul, a strange fire sprang 
up in my heart, and I entered into a kind of agony for Him. Then I heard these 
words: With no other soul do I unite Myself as closely and in such a way as I 
do with you, and this because of the deep humility and ardent love which 
you have for Me. 

588 On one occasion, I heard these words within me: Every movement of your heart 
is known to Me. Know, My daughter, that once glance of yours directed at 
someone else would wound Me (54) more than many sins committed by 
another person. 

589 Love casts our fear. Since I came to love God with my whole being and with all the 
strength of my heart, fear has left me. Even if I were to hear the most terrifying 
things about God’s justice, I would not fear Him at all, because I have come to 
know Him well. God is love, and His Spirit is peace. I see now that my deeds 
which have flowed from love are more perfect than those which I have done out of 
fear. I have placed my trust in God and fear nothing. I have given myself over to 
His holy will; let Him do with me as He wishes, and I will still love Him. 

590 When I receive Holy Communion, I entreat and beg the Savior to heal my tongue, 
that I may never fail in love of neighbor. 

591 (55) Jesus. You know how ardently I desire to hide so that no one may know me 
but Your sweetest Heart. I want to be a tiny violet, hidden in the grass, unknown in 
a magnificent enclosed garden in which beautiful lilies and roses grow. The 
beautiful rose and the lovely lily can be seen from afar, but in order to see a little 
violet, one has to bend low; only its scent gives it away. Oh, how happy I am to be 
able to hide myself in this way! O my divine Bridegroom, the flower of my heart 
and the scent of my pure love are for You. My soul has drowned itself in You, 
Eternal God. From the moment when You yourself drew me to Yourself, O my 
Jesus, the more I have known You, the more ardently I have desired You. 

592 I learned in the Heart of Jesus that in heaven itself there is a heaven to which not 
all, but only chosen souls, have access. Incomprehensible is the happiness in 
which the soul will be immersed. O my God, oh, that I could describe this, even in 
some little degree. (56) Souls are penetrated by His divinity and pass from 



165 




brightness to brightness, an unchanging light, but never monotonous, always new 
though never changing. O Holy Trinity, make yourself known to souls! 

593 O my Jesus, nothing is better for the soul than humiliations. In contempt is the 
secret of happiness, when the soul recognizes that, of itself, it is only 
wretchedness and nothingness, and that whatever it possesses of good is a gift of 
God. When the soul sees that everything is given it freely and that the only thing it 
has of itself is its own misery, this is what sustains it in a continual act of humble 
prostration before the majesty of God. And God, seeing the soul in such a 
disposition, pursues it with His graces. As the soul continues to immerse itself 
more deeply into the abyss of its nothingness and need, God uses His 
omnipotence to exalt it. If there is a truly happy soul upon earth, it can only be (57) 
a truly humble soul. At first, one’s self-love suffers greatly on this account, but 
after a soul has struggled courageously. God grants it much light by which it sees 
how wretched and full of deception everything is. God alone is in its heart. A 
humble soul does not trust itself, but places all its confidence in God. God defends 
the humble soul and lets Himself into its secrets, and the soul abides in 
unsurpassable happiness which no one can comprehend. 

594 One evening, one of the deceased sisters, who had already visited me a few times, 
appeared to me. The first time I had seen her, she had been in great suffering, 
and then gradually these sufferings had diminished; this time she was radiant with 
happiness, and she told me she was already in heaven. She told me that God had 
tried (58) our house with tribulation because Mother General [Michael] had given in 
to doubts, not believing what I had said about this soul. And further, as a sign that 
she only now was in heaven, God would bless our house. Then she came closer 
to me, embraced me sincerely and said, “I must go now.” I understood how closely 
the three stages of a soul’s life are bound together; that is to say, life on earth, in 
purgatory and in heaven [the Communion of Saints]. 

595 I have noticed many times that God tries certain people on account of those things 
about which He spoke to me, for mistrust displeases Jesus. Once, when I saw that 
God had tried a certain Archbishop [Jalbrzykowski] because he was opposed to 
the cause and distrustful of it, I felt sorry for him and pleaded with God for him, and 
God relieved his suffering. God is very displeased with lack of trust in Him, and 
this is why some souls lose many graces. Distrust (59) hurts His most sweet 
Heart, which is full of goodness and incomprehensible love for us. A priest should 
sometimes be distrustful in order to better ascertain the genuineness of gifts 
bestowed on a given soul; and when he does so in order to direct the soul to 
deeper union with God, his will be a great and incomprehensible reward indeed. 

But there is a great difference between this and disrespect and distrust of divine 
graces in a soul simply because one cannot comprehend and penetrate these 
things with one’s mind, and this latter is displeasing to the Lord. I greatly pity souls 
who encounter inexperienced priests. 

596 Once, a certain priest [Father Sopocko 124 ] asked me to pray for him. I promised to 
pray, and asked for mortification. When I received permission for (60) a certain 
mortification, I felt a great desire to give up all the graces that God’s goodness 
would intend for me that day in favor of that priest, and I asked the Lord Jesus to 
deign to bestow on me all the sufferings and afflictions, both exterior and spiritual, 



166 




597 

598 

599 

600 
601 



that the priest would have had to suffer during that day. God partially answered 
my request and, at once, all sorts of difficulties and adversities sprang up out of 
nowhere, so much so that one of the sisters remarked out loud that the Lord Jesus 
must have a hand in this because everyone was trying Sister Faustina. The 
charges made were so groundless that what some sisters put forward, others 
denied, while I offered all this in silence on behalf of the priest. 

But that was not all; I began to experience interior sufferings. First, I was seized by 
depression and aversion towards the sisters, then a kind of uncertainty began (61) 
to trouble me. I could not recollect myself during prayer, and various things would 
take hold of my mind. When, tired out, I entered the chapel, a strange pain seized 
my soul, and I began to weep softly. Then I heard in my soul a voice, saying, My 
daughter, why are you weeping? After all, you yourself offered to undertake 
these sufferings. Know that what you have taken upon yourself for that soul 
is only a small portion. He is suffering much more. And I asked the Lord, 

“Why are You treating him like that?” The Lord answered me that it was for the 
triple crown meant for him: that of virginity, the priesthood and martyrdom. At that 
moment, a great joy flooded my soul at the sight of the great glory that is going to 
be his in heaven. Right away I said the Te Deuni 25 for this special grace of God; 
namely, of learning how God treats those He intends to have close to himself. 

Thus, all sufferings are nothing in comparison with what awaits us in heaven. 

(62) One day, after our Mass, I suddenly saw my confessor [Father Sopocko] 
saying Mass in Saint Michael’s Church, in front of the picture of the Mother of God. 
It was at the time of the Offertory, and I saw the Infant Jesus clinging to him as if 
fleeing from something and seeking refuge in him. But when the time came for 
Holy Communion, He disappeared as usual. Suddenly, I saw the Blessed Mother, 
who shielded him with her cloak and said, Courage, My son, courage. She said 
something else which I could not hear. 

Oh, how ardently I desire that every soul would praise Your mercy. Happy is the 
soul that calls upon the mercy of the Lord. It will see that the Lord will defend it as 
His glory, as He said. And who would dare fight against God? All you souls, 
praise the Lord’s mercy (63) by trusting in His mercy all your life and especially at 
the hour of your death. And fear nothing, dear soul, whoever you are; the greater 
the sinner, the greater his right to Your mercy, O Lord. O Incomprehensible 
Goodness! God is the first to stoop to the sinner. O Jesus, I wish to glorify Your 
mercy on behalf of thousand of souls. I know very well, O my Jesus, that I am to 
keep telling souls about Your goodness, about Your incomprehensible mercy. 

On one occasion, after a person had asked me for prayer, when I met the Lord I 
said to Him, “Jesus, I especially love those souls whom You love.” And Jesus 
answered, And as for Me, I bestow special graces on those souls for whom 
you intercede. 

How wondrously Jesus defends me; truly this is a great grace of God which I have 
experienced for a long time now. 

(64) Once, when one of our sisters 126 became fatally ill and all the community 127 
was gathered together, there was also a priest 128 there who gave the sister 



167 




602 



603 



604 



605 



absolution. Suddenly, I saw many spirits of darkness. Then, forgetting that I was 
with the sisters, I seized the holy-water sprinkler and sprinkled the spirits, and they 
disappeared at once. However, when the sisters came to the refectory, Mother 
Superior [Borgia] remarked that I should not have sprinkled the sick sister in the 
presence of the priest, as this was his duty. I accepted the admonition in the spirit 
of penance, but holy water is indeed of great help to the dying. 

My Jesus, You see how weak I am of myself. Therefore, You Yourself direct my 
affairs. And know, Jesus, that without you I will not budge for any cause, but with 
You I will take on the most difficult things. 

(65) January 29, 1936. In the evening, when I was in my cell, I suddenly saw a 
great light and a dark gray cross high up within the light. Suddenly, I found myself 
caught up close to the cross. I gazed at it intently, but could not understand 
anything, and so I prayed, asking what it could mean. At that moment I saw the 
Lord Jesus, and the cross disappeared. The Lord Jesus was sitting in a great light, 
and His legs, up to the knees, were drowned in the light so that I could not see 
them. Jesus bent toward me, looked at me kindly and spoke to me about the will 
of the Heavenly Father. He told me that the most perfect and holy soul is the one 
that does the will of My Father, but there are not many such, and that He looks with 
special love upon the soul who lives His will. And Jesus told me that I was doing 

the will of God perfectly and for this reason I am uniting Myself with you 

and communing with you in a special and intimate way. 

God embraces with His incomprehensible love the soul who (66) lives by His will. I 
understood how much god loves us, how simple He is, though incomprehensible, 
and how easy it is to commune with Him, despite His great majesty. With no one 
do I feel as free and as much at ease as with Him. Even a mother and her truly 
loving child do not understand each other so well as God and I do. When I was in 
that state of communion with God, I saw two particular persons, and their sad 
interior condition was revealed to me. They were in a sorrowful state, but I trust 
that they, too, will glorify the mercy of God. 

At the same time, I saw a certain person [Father Sopocko] and, in part, the 
condition of his soul and the ordeals God was sending him. His sufferings were of 
the mind and in a form so acute that I pitied him and said to the Lord, “Why do you 
treat him like that?” And the Lord answered, For the sake of his triple crown. 
And the Lord also gave me to understand what unimaginable glory awaits the 
person who resembles the (67) suffering Jesus here on earth. That person will 
resemble Jesus in His glory. The Heavenly Father will recognize and glorify our 
soul to the extent that He sees in us a resemblance to His Son. I understood that 
this assimilation into Jesus is granted to us while we are here on earth. I see pure 
and innocent souls upon whom God has exercised His justice; the souls are the 
victims who sustain the world and who fill up what is lacking in the Passion of 
Jesus. They are not many in number. I rejoice greatly that God has allowed me to 
know such souls. 

O Holy T rinity, Eternal God, I thank You for allowing me to know the greatness and 
the various degrees of glory to which souls attain. Oh, what a great difference of 
depth in the knowledge of God there is between one degree and another! Oh, if 



168 




people could only know this! O my God, if I were thereby able to attain one more 
degree, I would gladly suffer all the torments of the martyrs put together. (68) 
Truly, all those torments seem as nothing to me compared with the glory that is 
awaiting us for all eternity. O Lord, immerse my soul in the ocean of Your divinity 
and grant me the grace of knowing You; for the better I know You, the more I 
desire You, and the more my love for You grows. I feel in my soul an 
unfathomable abyss which only god can fill. I lose myself in Him as a drop does in 
the ocean. The Lord has inclined himself to my misery like a ray of the sun upon a 
barren and rocky desert. And yet, under the influence of His rays, my soul has 
become covered with verdure, flowers, and fruit, and has become a beautiful 
garden for His repose. 

606 My Jesus, despite Your graces, I see and feel all my misery. I begin my day with 
battle and end it with battle. As soon as I conquer one obstacle, ten more appear 
(69) to take its place. But I am not worried, because I know that this is the time of 
struggle, not peace. When the burden of the battle becomes too much for me, I 
throw myself like a child into the arms of the heavenly Father and trust I will not 
perish. O my Jesus, how prone I am to evil, and this forces me to be constantly 
vigilant. But I do not lose heart. I trust God’s grace, which abounds in the worst 
misery. 

607 In the midst of the worst difficulties and adversities, I do not lose inner peace or 
exterior balance, and this discourages my adversaries. Patience in adversity gives 
power to the soul. 

608 February 2, [1936]. In the morning, when the bell awoke me, I was so overcome 
by drowsiness which I could not shake off that I jumped into cold water, and after 
two minutes the sleepiness left me. When I came to meditation (70) a host of 
absurd thoughts swarmed into my head, so much so that I had to struggle 
throughout the whole meditation. It was the same during prayer time, but when 
Mass began, a strange silence and joy filled my heart. Just then, I saw Our Lady 
with the Infant Jesus, and the Holy Old Man [St. Joseph] standing behind them. 
The most holy Mother said to me, Take My Dearest Treasure, and She handed me 
the Infant Jesus. When I took the Infant Jesus in my arms, the Mother of God and 
Saint Joseph disappeared. I was left alone with the Infant Jesus. 

609 I said to Him, “I know that You are my Lord and Creator even though You are so 
tiny.” Jesus stretched His little arms out to me and looked at me with a smile. My 
spirit was filled with incomparable joy. Then, suddenly, Jesus disappeared, and it 
was time for Holy Communion. I went with the other sisters to the Holy Table, my 
soul deeply moved. After Holy Communion, (71) I heard these words in my soul: I 
am in your heart, I whom you had in your arms. I then pleaded with Jesus for a 
certain soul [Father Sopocko], asking the Lord to grant him the grace to fight, and 
to take this trial from him. As you ask, so shall it be, but his merit will not be 
lessened. Joy reigned in my soul that God is so good and merciful; God grants 
everything that we ask of Him with trust. 

610 After each conversation with the Lord, my soul is extraordinarily strengthened, and 
a profound tranquility prevails therein and gives me such courage that I do not fear 
anything in the world, but fear only lest I make Jesus sad. 



169 




611 O my Jesus, I implore You by the goodness of Your most sweet Heart, let Your 
anger diminish and show us Your mercy. May Your wounds be our shield against 
Your Father’s (72) justice. I have come to know You, O god, as the source of 
mercy that vivifies and nourishes every soul. Oh, how great is the mercy of the 
Lord; it surpasses all His other qualities! Mercy is the greatest attribute of God; 
everything that surrounds me speaks to me of this. Mercy is the life of souls; His 
compassion is inexhaustible. O Lord, look on us and deal with us according to 
Your countless mercies, according to Your great mercy. 

61 2 One time, I was in doubt as to whether what had happened to me had seriously 
offended the Lord Jesus or not. As I could not solve this doubt, I made up my mind 
not to go to Communion before first going to confession, although I immediately 
made an act of contrition, as it is my habit to ask for forgiveness after the slightest 
transgression. During those days when I did not receive Holy Communion, (73) I 
did not feel the presence of God. This caused me unspeakable pain, but I took it 
as a punishment for sin. However, at the time of Holy Confession I was 
reproached for not going to Holy Communion, because what had happened to me 
was not an obstacle to receiving Holy Communion. After confession, I received 
Holy Communion, and I saw the Lord Jesus who said to me, Know, My daughter, 
that you caused Me more sorrow by not uniting yourself with Me in Holy 
Communion than you did by that small transgression. 

613 One day, I saw a small chapel in which six sisters were receiving Holy Communion 
from our confessor [Father Sopocko], who was wearing a surplice and stole. 129 
There were no decorations and no kneelers in the chapel. After Holy Communion, 

I saw the Lord Jesus as He is represented in the image. Jesus was walking away, 
and I called to Him, “How can You pass me by and not say anything to me, Lord? 
Without You, (74) I shall do nothing; You must stay with me and bless me, and this 
community and my country as well.” Jesus made the sign of the cross and said, 

Do not fear anything; I am always with you. 

61 4 On the last two days before Lent we had an hour of propitiatory adoration with the 
girls. 130 During both hours I saw the Lord Jesus as he was after the scourging. My 
soul felt such great pain that it seemed to me that I was experiencing all those 
torments in my own body and in my own soul. 

61 5 March 1 , 1 936. Today during Holy Mass I experienced a strange force and urge to 
start realizing God’s wishes. I had such a clear understanding of the things the 
Lord was asking of me that truly if I were to say (75) that I do not understand what 
God is demanding from me, I would be lying, because the Lord is making His will 
known to me so clearly and distinctly that I do not have the least shadow of a doubt 
about them. I realized that it would be the greatest ingratitude to delay any longer 
this undertaking which the Lord wishes to bring to fulfillment for His glory and the 
benefit of a great number of souls. And he is using me as a miserable tool through 
which to realize His eternal plans of mercy. Truly, how ungrateful my soul would 
be to resist God’s will any longer. Nothing will stop me any longer, be it 
persecution, sufferings, sneers, threats, entreaties, hunger, cold, flattery, 
friendships, adversities, friends or enemies; be it things I am experiencing now or 



170 




things that will come in the future or even the hatred of hell - nothing will deter me 
from doing the will of God. 



616 



617 



618 



(76) I am not counting on my own strength, but on His omnipotence for, as he 
gave me the grace of knowing His holy will, He will also grant me the grace of 
fulfilling it. I cannot fail to mention how much my own lower nature resists this 
thing, manifesting its own desires, and there results within my soul a great 
struggle, like that of Jesus in the Garden of Olives. And so I too cry out to God, the 
Eternal Father, “If it is possible, take this cup from me, but, nevertheless, not my 
will, but Yours be done, O Lord; may Your will be done.” What I am about to go 
through is no secret to me, but with full knowledge I accept whatever You send me, 

0 Lord. I trust in You, O merciful God, and I wish to be the first to manifest to You 
that confidence which You demand of souls. O Eternal Truth, help me and 
enlighten me along the roadways of life, and grant that Your will be accomplished 
in me. 

(77) My God, I desire nothing but the fulfillment of Your will. It does not matter 
whether it will be easy or difficult. I feel an extraordinary force driving me to action. 
One thing alone holds me back, and that is holy obedience. O my Jesus, You urge 
me on the one hand and hold me back and restrain me on the other. In this, too, O 
my Jesus, may Your holy will be done. 

1 continued in this state, without a break, for many days. My physical strength 
declined, and though I did not speak to anyone about it, nevertheless Mother 
Superior [Borgia] noticed my pain and remarked that I had changed in appearance 
and was very pale. She told me to go to bed earlier and to sleep longer, and she 
had a cup of hot milk brought to me in the evening. She had a motherly heart, full 
of care, and tried to help me. But in the case of spiritual sufferings, (78) external 
things have no influence, and they do not bring much relief. It was from the 
confessional that I drew my strength and the consolation of knowing that it would 
not be long before I could begin to act. 

On Thursday, when I went to my cell, I saw over me the Sacred Host in great 
brightness. Then I heard a voice that seemed to be coming from above the Host: 

In the Host is your power; It will defend you. After these words, the vision 
disappeared, but a strange power entered my soul, and a strange light as to what 
our love for God consists in; namely, in doing His will. 

O Holy T rinity, Eternal God, I want to shine in the crown of Your mercy as a tiny 
gem whose beauty depends on the ray of Your (79) light and of Your inscrutable 
mercy. All that is beautiful in my soul is Yours, O God; of myself, I am ever 
nothing. 

At the beginning of lent, I asked my confessor for some mortification for this time of 
fast. I was told not to cut down on my food but, while eating, to meditate on how 
the Lord Jesus, on the Cross, accepted vinegar and gall. This would be my 
mortification. I did not know that this would be so beneficial to my soul. The 
benefit is that I am meditating constantly on His sorrowful Passion and so, while I 
am eating, I am not preoccupied with what I am eating, but am reflecting on my 
Lord’s death. 



171 




61 9 At the beginning of Lent, I also asked to have the subject of my particular examen 
changed, and I was told to do everything with the pure intention of reparation for 
poor sinners. (80) This keeps me in continual union with God, and this intention 
perfects my actions, because everything I do is done for immortal souls. All 
hardships and fatigue are as nothing when I think that they reconcile sinful souls 
with God. 

620 Mary is my Instructress, who is ever teaching me how to live for God. My spirit 
brightens up in Your gentleness and Your humility, O Mary. 

621 On one occasion, when I dropped by the chapel for a five-minute adoration and 
was praying for a certain soul, I came to understand that God does not always 
accept our petitions for the souls we have in mind, but directs these to other souls. 
Hence, although we do not relieve the souls we intended to relieve in their 
purgatorial suffering, still our prayer is not lost. 

622 (81) Intimate communion of a soul with God. God approaches a soul in a special 
way known only to Himself and to the soul. No one perceives this mysterious 
union. Love presides in this union, and everything is achieved by love alone. 
Jesus gives Himself to the soul in a gentle and sweet manner, and in His depths 
there is peace. He grants the soul many graces and makes it capable of sharing 
His eternal thoughts. And frequently, He reveals to it His divine plans. 

623 Father Andrasz told me that it would be a good thing to have in God’s Church a 
group of souls who would beg for His mercy, because in fact we are all in need of 
that mercy. After these words, an extraordinary light filled my soul. Oh, how good 
is the Lord! 

624 (82) March 18, 1936. Once, I asked the Lord Jesus to take the first stop by 
bringing about some change or some external event, or by letting them expel me, 
as I found it impossible to leave the Congregation on my own initiative. And I was 
in an agony over this for more than three hours. I could not pray, but kept 
submitting my will to the will of God. 

The next morning, Mother Superior [Borgia] told me that Mother General [Michael] 
was transferring me to Warsaw. I answered Mother that perhaps I should not go 
but leave [the Congregation] directly from here. I regarded this to be the external 
sign for which I had been asking God. Mother Superior made no reply, but after 
some time she called me again and said, “You know what, Sister: go anyway and 
don’t worry about wasting a trip, even if you should return immediately.” I 
answered, “All right, I will go,” although my heart was seized with pain because I 
knew (83) that by this trip this matter would be delayed. However, I try always to 
be obedient, despite everything. 

625 In the evening, when I was praying, the Mother of God told me, Your lives must be 
like Mine: quiet and hidden, in unceasing union with God, pleading for humanity 
and preparing the world for the second coming of God. 



172 




626 In the evening, during Benediction, my soul was for some time in communion with 
God the father. I felt I was in His hand like a little child, and I heard these words in 
my soul: Do not fear anything, My daughter; all the adversaries will be 
shattered at My feet. At these words, a deep peace and a great interior calm 
entered my soul. 

627 (84) When I complained to the Lord that He was taking my help away and that I 
would be alone again and would not know what to do, I heard these words: Do 
not be afraid; I am always with you. After these words, a deep peace once 
again entered my soul. His presence penetrated me completely in a way that 
could be sensed. My spirit was flooded with light, and my body participated in this 
as well. 

628 On the evening of the last day before my departure from Vilnius, an elderly sister 131 
revealed the condition of her soul to me. She said that she had already been 
suffering interiorly for several years, that it seemed to her that all her confessions 
had been bad, and that she had doubts as to whether the Lord Jesus had forgiven 
her. I asked her if she had ever told her confessor about this. She answered that 
she had spoken many (85) times about this to her confessors and.... ’’the 
confessors are always telling me to be at peace, but still I suffer very much, and 
nothing brings me relief, and it constantly seems to me that God has not forgiven 
me.” In answered, “You should obey your confessor, Sister, and be fully at peace, 
because this is certainly a temptation.” 

But she entreated me with tears in her eyes to ask Jesus if He had forgiven her 
and whether her confessions had been good or not. I answered forcefully, “Ask 
Him yourself, Sister, if you don’t believe your confessors!” But she clutched my 
hand and did not want to let me go until I gave her an answer, and she kept asking 
me to pray for her and to let her know what Jesus would tell me about her. Crying 
bitterly, she would not let me go and said to me, “I know that the Lord Jesus 
speaks to you, Sister.” Since she was clutching my hand and I could not wrench 
myself away, I promised her (86) I would pray for her. In the evening, during 
Benediction, I heard these words in my soul: Tell her that her disbelief wounds 
My heart more than the sins she committed. When I told her this, she began to 
cry like a child, and great joy entered her soul. I understood that God wanted to 
console this soul through me. Even though it cost me a good deal, I fulfilled God’s 
wish. 

629 When I entered the chapel for a moment that same evening, to thank God for all 
the graces He had bestowed on me in this house, suddenly God’s presence 
enveloped me. I felt like a child in the hands of the best of fathers, and I heard 
these words: Do not fear anything. I am always with you. His love penetrated 
my whole being. I felt I was entering into such close intimacy with Him that (87) I 
cannot find words to express it. 

630 Then I saw one of the seven spirits near me, radiant as at other times, under a 
form of light. I constantly saw him beside me when I was riding on the train. I saw 
an angel standing on every church we passed, but surrounded by a light which 
was paler than that of the spirit who was accompanying me on the journey, and 



173 




631 



632 



633 



634 



635 



each of these spirits who were guarding the churches bowed his head to the spirit 
who was near me. 

When I entered the convent gate at Warsaw, the spirit disappeared. I thanked God 
for His goodness, that He gives us angels for companions. Oh, how little people 
reflect on the fact that they always have beside them such a guest, and at the 
same time a witness to everything! Remember, sinners, that you likewise have a 
witness to all your deeds. 

0 my Jesus, Your goodness surpasses all understanding, and no one will exhaust 
Your mercy. Damnation is for the (88) soul who wants to be damned; but for the 
one who desires salvation, there is the inexhaustible ocean of the Lord’s mercy to 
draw from. How can a small vessel contain the unfathomable ocean? 

As I was taking leave of the sisters and was about to depart, one of them 132 
apologized much to me for having helped me so little in my duties, and not only for 
having neglected to help me, but also for having tried to make things more difficult 
for me. However, in my own heart, I regarded her as a great benefactress, 
because she had exercised me in patience to such an extent that one of the elder 
sisters had once said, “Sister Faustina must be either a fool or a saint, for truly, an 
ordinary person would not tolerate having someone constantly do such things out 
of spite.” However, I had (89) always approached her with good will. That 
particular sister had tried to make my work more difficult to the point that, despite 
my efforts, she had sometimes succeeded in spoiling what had been well done, as 
she herself admitted to me at our parting, and for which she begged my pardon. I 
had not wanted to probe her intentions, but took it as a trial from God 

1 am greatly surprised at how one can be so jealous. When I see someone else’s 
good, I rejoice at it as if it were mine. The joy of others is my joy, and the suffering 
of others is my suffering, for otherwise I would not dare to commune with the Lord 
Jesus. The spirit of Jesus is always simple, meek, sincere; all malice, envy, and 
unkindness disguised under a smile of good will are clever little devils. A severe 
word flowing from sincere love does not wound the heart. 

(90) March 22, [1936]. When I arrived at Warsaw, I went into the small chapel for 
a moment to thank the Lord for a safe journey, and I asked the Lord to give me the 
assistance and the grace necessary for everything that was in store for me here. I 
submitted myself in all things to His holy will. I heard these words: Fear nothing; 
all difficulties will serve for the fulfillment of My will. 

March 25. In the morning, during meditation, God’s presence enveloped me in a 
special way, as I saw the immeasurable greatness of God and, at the same time, 
His condescension to His creatures. Then I saw the Mother of God, who said to 
me, Oh, how pleasing to God is the soul that follows faithfully the inspirations of 
His grace! I gave the Savior to the world; as for you, you have to speak to the 
world about His great mercy and prepare the world for the Second (91 ) Coming of 
Him who will come, not as a merciful Savior, but as a just Judge. Oh, how terrible 
is that day! Determined is the day of justice, the day of divine wrath. The angels 
tremble before it. Speak to souls about this great mercy while it is still the time for 
[granting] mercy. If you keep silent now, you will be answering for a great number 



174 




of souls on that terrible day. Fear nothing. Be faithful to the end. I sympathize 
with you. 

636 When I arrived at Walendow, one of the sisters 133 gave me this welcome: “Sister, 
now that you have come to us here, everything is going to be all right.” I said to 
her, “Why do you say that, Sister?” She answered that she felt this in her soul. 

This particular person is full of simplicity and very pleasing to the Heart of Jesus. 

The house really was in dire straits [financially] I shall not mention all of that 

here. 

637 (92) Confession. As I was preparing for confession, I said to Jesus, hidden in the 
Blessed Sacrament, “Jesus, I beg You to speak to me through the mouth of this 
priest. And this will be a sign to me, because he does not know at all that You 
want me to establish that Congregation of mercy. Let him say something to me 
about this mercy.” 

When I approached the confessional and started my confession, the priest 
interrupted me and started telling me about the great mercy of God, and he spoke 
more forcefully about it than I had ever heard anyone speak before. And he asked 
me, “Do you know that the mercy of the Lord is greater than all His works, that it is 
the crown of His works?” And I listened attentively to these words which the Lord 
was speaking through the mouth of the priest. Although I believe that it is always 
God who speaks through the lips of the priest in the confessional, I experienced it 
in a special way on that occasion. (93) 

Although I did not reveal anything of the divine life which is in my soul and only 
accused myself of my offenses, the priest himself told me very much of what was 
in my soul and put me under obligation to be faithful to the inspirations of God. He 
said to me, “You are going through life with the Mother of God, who faithfully 
responded to every divine inspiration.” O my Jesus, who can ever comprehend 
Your goodness? 

638 Jesus, drive away from me the thoughts that are not in accord with Your will. I 
know that nothing now binds me to this earth but this work of mercy. 

639 Thursday. During the evening adoration, I saw Jesus scourged and tortured. He 
said to me, My daughter, I desire that even in the smallest things, you rely on 
your confessor. Your greatest sacrifices do not please Me if you practice 
them without the confessor’s (94) permission; on the other hand, the 
smallest sacrifice finds great value in My eyes, if it is done with his 
permission. The greatest works are worthless in My eyes if they are done 
out of self-will, and often they are not in accord with My will and merit 
punishment rather than reward. And on the other hand, even the smallest of 
yours acts, done with the confessor’s permission is pleasing in My eyes and 
very dear to Me. Hold firmly to this always. Be constantly on the watch, for 
many souls will turn back from the gates of hell and worship My mercy. But 
fear nothing, as I am with you. Know that of yourself you can do nothing. 

640 On the First Friday of the month, before Communion, I saw a large ciborium (95) 
filled with sacred hosts. A hand placed the ciborium in front of me, and I took it in 



175 




my hands. There were a thousand living hosts inside. Then I heard a voice, 

These are hosts which have been received by the souls for whom you have 
obtained the grace of true conversion during this Lent. That was a week 
before Good Friday. I spent the day in great interior recollection, emptying myself 
for the sake of souls. 

641 Oh, what joy it is to empty myself for the sake of immortal souls! I know that the 
grain of wheat must be destroyed and ground between millstones in order to 
become food. In the same way, I must become destroyed in order to be useful to 
the Church and souls, even though exteriorly no one will notice my sacrifice. O 
Jesus, outwardly I want to be hidden, just like this little wafer wherein the eye 
perceives nothing, and yet I am a host consecrated to You. 

642 (96) Palm Sunday. This Sunday, I experienced in a special way the sentiments of 
the most sweet Heart of Jesus. My spirit was there where Jesus was. I saw Jesus 
riding on a donkey’s foal, and the disciples and a great multitude with branches in 
their hands joyfully accompanying the Lord Jesus. Some strewed them before His 
feet where He was riding, while others raised their branches in the air, leaping and 
jumping before the Lord and not knowing what to do for joy. And I saw another 
crowd which came out to meet Jesus, likewise with joyful faces and with branches 
in their hands, and they were crying out unceasingly with joy. There were little 
children there also. But Jesus was very grave, and the Lord gave me to know how 
much He was suffering at the time. And at that moment, I saw nothing but only 
Jesus, whose Heart was saturated with ingratitude. 

643 (97) Quarterly confession. Father Bukowski. When some inner force urged me 
again not to put off this matter, I was unable to find peace. I told the confessor, 
Father Bukowski, that I could not wait any longer. Father answered me, “Sister, 
this is an illusion. The Lord Jesus cannot be demanding this. You have made 
your perpetual vows. All this is an illusion. You are inventing some sort of heresy!” 
And he was shouting at me, almost at the top of his voice. I asked him whether all 
of this was an illusion, and He said, “Everything.” “Then please tell me what 
course I must take.” “Well, Sister, you must not follow any inspiration. You should 
get your mind off all this. You should pay no attention to what you hear in your 
soul and try to carry out your exterior duties well. Give no thought to these things 
and put them completely out of your mind.” In answered, “Good, (98) up to now, I 
have been following my conscience, but now that you direct me, Father, to pay no 
heed to my interior, I will cease to do so.” Then he said, “If the Lord Jesus tells you 
something again, please let me know, but you must take no action.” I answered, 
“Very well; I will try to be obedient.” I do not know why Father was being so 
severe. 

644 When I left the confessional, a multitude of thoughts oppressed my soul. Why be 
sincere? What I have told is no sin, so I have no duty to tell it to the confessor. 

And again, what a relief that I do not have to heed my interior any more as long as 
things are all right on the outside. I do not have to pay attention to anything or to 
follow the inner voices that have often cost me so much humiliation. From now on, 

I will be free. And again, (99) a strange pain seized my soul: can I not, then, 
commune with the One whom I desire so greatly? The One who is the whole 
strength of my soul? I began to cry out, “To whom shall I go, O Jesus?” But from 



176 




645 



646 



the moment of the confessor’s prohibition, great darkness fell upon my soul. I 
feared lest I hear some inner voice, which would occasion the breaking of my 
confessor’s prohibition. And then again, I die of longing for God. My interior is torn 
asunder, not having any will of its own, since it has been turned over completely to 
God. 

That was on Wednesday of Holy Week. The suffering intensified on Holy 
Thursday. When I came to make my meditation, I entered into a kind of agony. I 
did not feel the presence of God, but all the justice of God weighed heavily upon 
me. I saw myself as if knocked down for the sins of the world. Satan began to 
mock me, “See, now you will no longer strive to win souls; look how you’ve been 
paid! Nobody will (100) believe you that Jesus demands this. See how much you 
are suffering now, and how much more you are going to suffer! After all, the 
confessor has now released you from all these things.” Now I can live as I like, as 
long as things are all right outwardly. These dreadful thoughts tormented me 
throughout the whole hour. 

When it was almost time for Holy Mass, my heart was seized with pain; am I, then, 
to leave the Congregation? And since Father has told me that this is a kind of 
heresy, am I to fall away from the Church? I cried out to the Lord with a sorrowful 
interior cry, “Jesus, save me!” 

Still, not a single ray of light entered my soul, and I felt my strength failing, as if the 
body were separating itself from the soul. I submitted to the will of god and 
repeated, “O God, let whatever You have decided upon happen to me. Nothing in 
me is any longer my own.” Then, suddenly, God’s presence enveloped me and 
penetrated me through and through. (101) This was just as I was receiving Holy 
Communion. A moment after Holy Communion, I lost all awareness of everything 
around me and of my whereabouts. 

Then I saw the Lord Jesus, as He is represented in the image, and He said to me, 
Tell the confessor that this work is Mine and that I am using you as a lowly 
instrument. And I said, “Jesus, I can no longer do anything You command me to 
do, because my confessor has told me that all this is an illusion, and that I am not 
allowed to obey any of Your commands. I will do nothing that You will tell me to do 
now. I am sorry, my Lord, but I am not allowed to do anything, and I must obey my 
confessor. Jesus, I most earnestly ask Your pardon. You know how much I suffer 
because of this, but it can’t be helped, Jesus. The confessor has forbidden me to 
follow Your orders.” Jesus listened to my arguments and complaints with kindness 
and satisfaction. I thought (102) the Lord Jesus would be grievously offended but, 
on the contrary, He was pleased and said to me kindly, Always tell your 
confessor about everything I say to you and command you to do, and do 
only that for which you obtain permission. Do not be upset, and fear 
nothing; I am with you. My soul was filled with joy, and all those oppressive 
thoughts vanished. Certitude and courage entered my soul. 

But after a short while, I entered into the sufferings which Jesus underwent in the 
Garden of Olives. This lasted until Friday morning. On Friday, I experienced the 
Passion of Jesus but, this time, in a different way. On that day, Father Bukowski 
came from Derdy. Some strange power pushed me to go to confession and tell 



177 




him about everything that had happened to me and about what Jesus had said to 
me. When I told Father, he was quite different and he said (103) to me, “Sister, 
don’t be afraid of anything; you will come to no harm, for the Lord Jesus will not 
allow it. If you are obedient and persevere in this disposition, you need not worry 
about anything. God will find a way to bring about His work. You should always 
have this simplicity and sincerity and tell everything to Mother General. What I 
said to you was said as a warning, because illusions may afflict even holy persons, 
and Satan’s insinuations may play a part in this, and sometimes this comes from 
our own selves, so one has to be careful. And so continue as you have thus far. 
You can see, Sister, that the Lord is not angered by this. And Sister, you can 
repeat these things that have happened to you are present to your regular 
confessor [Father Sopocko].” 

647 From this, I came to understand one thing: that I must pray much for each of my 
confessors, that he might obtain the light of the Holy (104) Spirit, for when I 
approach the confessional without first praying fervently, the confessor does not 
understand me very well. Father encouraged me to pray fervently for these 
intentions, that God would give better knowledge and understanding of the things 
He is asking of me. “Make novena after novena, Sister, and God will not refuse 
the graces.” 

648 Good Friday. At three o’clock, I saw the Lord Jesus, crucified, who looked at me 
and said, I thirst. Then I saw two rays issue from His side, just as they appear in 
the image. I then felt in my soul the desire to save souls and to empty myself for 
the sake of poor sinners. I offered myself, together with the dying Jesus, to the 
Eternal Father, for the salvation of the whole world. With Jesus, through Jesus 
(105) and in Jesus is my communion with You, Eternal Father. On Good Friday, 
Jesus suffered in His soul in a way which was different from [His suffering on] Holy 
Thursday. 

649 Mass of the Resurrection. [April 1 2, 1 936]. When I entered the chapel, my spirit 
was immersed in God, its only treasure. His presence flooded me. 



650 O my Jesus, my Master and Director, strengthen and enlighten me in these difficult 

moments of my life. I expect no help from people; all my hope is in You. I feel 
alone in the face of Your demands, O Lord. Despite the fears and qualms of my 
nature, I am fulfilling Your holy will and desire to fulfill it as faithfully as possible 
throughout my life and in my death. Jesus, with You I can do all things. Do with 
me as You please; only give me Your merciful Heart and that is enough for me. 

(106) O Jesus my Lord, help me. Let what You have planned before all ages 
happen to me. I am ready at each beckoning of Your holy will. Enlighten my mind 
that I may know Your will. O God, You who pervade my soul, You know that I 
desire nothing but Your glory. 

O Divine Will, You are the delight of my heart, the food of my soul, the light of my 
intellect, the omnipotent strength of my will; for when I united myself with Your will, 
O Lord, Your power works through me and takes the place of my feeble will. Each 
day, I seek to carry out God’s wishes. 



178 




651 O Incomprehensible God, how great is Your mercy! It surpasses the combined 
understanding of all men and angels. All the angels ( 107 ) and all humans have 
emerged from the very depths of Your tender mercy. Mercy is the flower of love. 
God is love, and mercy is His deed. In love it is conceived; in mercy it is revealed. 
Everything I look at speaks to me of God’s mercy. Even God’s very justice speaks 
to me about His fathomless mercy, because justice flows from love. 

652 There is one word I heed and continually ponder; it alone is everything to me; I live 
by it and die by it, and it is the holy will of God. It is my daily food. My whole soul 
listens intently to God’s wishes. I do always what God asks of me, although my 
nature often quakes and I feel that the magnitude of these things is beyond my 
strength. I know well what I am of myself, but I also know what the grace of God 
is, which supports me. 

653 ( 108 ) April 25, 1936. Walendow. On that day, the suffering in my soul was more 
severe than ever before. From early morning, I felt as if my body and soul had 
separated. I felt that God’s presence had penetrated my whole being; I felt all the 
justice of God within me; I felt I stood alone before God. I thought: one word from 
my spiritual director would set me entirely at peace; but what can I do? - he is not 
here. However, I decided to seek light in holy confession. When I uncovered my 
soul to the priest, 134 he was afraid to continue hearing my confession, and that 
caused me even greater suffering. When I see that a priest is fearful, I do not 
obtain any inner peace. So I have decided that only to my spiritual director will I 
open my soul in all matters, from the greatest to the least, and that I will follow his 
directions strictly. 

654 Now I understand that confession is only the confessing (109) of one’s sins, and 
spiritual guidance is a different thing altogether. But this is not what I want to 
speak about. I want to tell about a strange thing that happened to me for the first 
time. When the confessor started talking to me, I did not understand a single word. 
Then I saw Jesus Crucified and He said to me, It is in My Passion that you must 
seek light and strength. After the confession, I meditated on Jesus’ terrible 
Passion, and I understood that what I was suffering was nothing compared to the 
Savior’s Passion, and that even the smallest imperfection was the cause of this 
terrible suffering. Then my soul was filled with very great contrition, and only then I 
sensed that I was in the sea of the unfathomable mercy of God. Oh, how few 
words I have to express what I am experiencing! I feel I am like a drop of dew 
engulfed in the depths of the bottomless ocean of divine mercy. 

655 (110) + May 11,1 936. I came to Cracow. I was happy that at last I shall be able 
to carry out all that the Lord Jesus was demanding. 

Once, when I was speaking with Father A.... [Andrasz] and had told him 
everything, I received this answer: “Sister, pray till the day of the Feast of the Most 
Sacred Heart and add some mortification to the prayer, and on the Feast of the 
Sacred Heart I will give you an answer.” But one day, I heard this voice in my soul: 
Fear nothing; I am with you. After these words, I felt such an urgency within me 
that, without waiting for the Feast of the Sacred Heart, I said during confession that 
I was going to leave the Congregation immediately. Father answered, “Sister, 



179 




since you have made the decision by yourself, then take the responsibility for 
yourself. Go.” I was happy to be leaving. 



656 



657 



658 



659 



660 



661 



662 



663 



The following morning, God’s presence suddenly left me. (Ill) A great darkness 
came over my soul. I could not pray. Because of this sudden loss of the presence 
of God, I decided to postpone the matter for a while, until I had talked with Father. 

Father A. [Andrasz] answered that such changes in souls were frequent, and that 
this was not an obstacle to action. 

When I talked to Mother General [Michael] about everything that had happened to 
me, she said, “Sister, I am locking you in the tabernacle with the Lord Jesus; 
wherever you go from there, that will be the will of God.” 

June 19. When we went to the Jesuits’ place for the procession of the Sacred 
Heart, during Vespers I saw the same rays coming forth from the Sacred Host, just 
as they are painted in the image. My soul was filled with great longing for God. 

(112) June, 1936. Conversation with Father A. [Andrasz] 

“Know that these are hard and difficult things. Your principal spiritual director is the 
Holy Spirit. We can only give direction to these inspirations, but your real director 
is the Holy Spirit. If you yourself have decided to leave, Sister, I neither prohibit 
nor order you to do so. You take the responsibility for yourself. I say this to you, 
Sister: you can begin to take action. You are capable of doing so, and therefore 
you can do so. These things are indeed probable; all you have told me up to now 
[before perpetual vows in Cracow in 1 933] speaks in favor of taking action. Still, 
you have to be very careful in all this. Pray much and ask that I be given light.” 

During Holy Mass, offered by Father Andrasz, I saw the little Infant Jesus, who told 
me that I was to depend on him for everything: No action undertaken on your 
own, even though you (113) put much effort into it, pleases Me. I understood 
this [need of] dependence. 

O my Jesus, on the day of the last judgment, You will demand from me an account 
of this work of mercy. O Just Judge, but my Spouse as well, help me to do Your 
holy will. O mercy, O divine virtue! 

July 1 6. I spent this whole night in prayer. I meditated upon the Lord’s Passion, 
and my soul was crushed by the burden of God’s justice. The Hand of the Lord 
touched me. 

July 17. O my Jesus, You know how much adversity I encounter in this matter, 
how much reproach I must put up with, how many ironic smiles I must take with 
equanimity. Oh, alone I would not (114) be able to survive this, but with You, my 
Master, I can do all things. Oh, how painfully an ironic smile wounds, especially 
when one [appears to] speak with great sincerity. 

July 22. O my Jesus, I know that a person’s greatness is evidenced by his deeds 
and not by his words or feelings. It is the works that have come from us that will 



180 




speak about us. My Jesus, do not allow me to daydream, but give me the courage 
and strength to fulfill Your holy will. 



664 



665 



666 



667 



668 



Jesus, if You wish to leave me in uncertainty, even to the end of my life, may Your 
Holy Name be blessed. 

+ O my Jesus, how immensely I rejoice at the assurance You have given me that 
the Congregation will come into being. I no longer have the least shadow of a 
doubt about this, and I see how great is the glory which it will give to God. It will be 
the reflection of God’s greatest attribute; that is, His divine mercy. Unceasingly, 
(115) they will intercede for divine mercy for themselves and for the whole world. 
And every act of mercy will flow from God’s love, that love with which they will be 
filled to overflowing. They will strive to make their own this great attribute of God, 
and to live by it and to bring others to know it and to trust in the goodness of the 
Lord. This Congregation of Divine Mercy will be in god’s Church like a beehive in a 
magnificent garden, hidden and meek. The sisters will work like bees to feed their 
neighbors’ souls with honey, while the wax will flame for the glory of God. 

+ June 29, 1936 

Father Andrasz told me to make a novena for the intention of knowing better the 
will of God. I prayed ardently, adding a certain bodily mortification. Towards the 
end of the novena, I received an inner light and the assurance that the 
Congregation will come into being and that it is pleasing to God. Despite the 
difficulties ( 116 ) and adversities, complete peace and strength entered my soul 
from on high. I understood that nothing could resist or nullify the will of God 
despite obstacles, persecution and sufferings of all kinds, and despite natural 
repugnance and fear. 

I understood that all striving for perfection and all sanctity consist in doing God’s 
will. Perfect fulfillment of God’s will is maturity in sanctity; there is no room for 
doubt here. To receive God’s light and recognize what God wants of us and yet 
not do it is a great offense against the majesty of God. Such a soul deserves to be 
completely forsaken by God. It resembles Lucifer, who had great light, but did not 
do God’s will. An extraordinary peace entered my soul when I reflected on the fact 
that, despite great difficulties, I had always faithfully followed God’s will (117) as I 
knew it. O Jesus, grant me the grace to put Your will into practice as I have come 
to know it, O God. 

July 14. I received a letter at three o’clock [from Father Sopocko 135 ]. O Jesus, 

You alone know what I suffer, but I will keep silent and will not say anything about 
it to any creature, because I know that no one will comfort me. You are everything 
to me, O God, and Your holy will is my nourishment. I am living now on what I will 
live on in eternity. 

I have great reverence for Saint Michael the Archangel; he had no example to 
follow in doing the will of God, and yet he fulfilled God’s will faithfully. 

+ July 1 5. During Holy Mass, I offered myself completely to the heavenly Father 
through the sweetest Heart of Jesus; let Him do as He pleases with me. Of myself 



181 




669 



670 

671 

672 



673 



674 



675 



I am nothing, and in my misery I have nothing of worth; so I abandon myself into 
the ocean of Your mercy, O Lord. 

( 118 ) July 16. lam learning how to be good from Jesus, from Him who is 
goodness itself, so that I may be called a daughter of the heavenly Father. This 
morning, when someone hurt my feelings, I tried, in that suffering, to unite my will 
to the will of God, and praised God by my silence. In the afternoon, I went for five- 
minute adoration, when suddenly I saw the crucifix I have on my breast come alive. 
Jesus said to me, My daughter, suffering will be a sign to you that I am with 
you. My soul was greatly moved by these words. 

0 Jesus, my Master and my Director, it is only with You that I can converse. With 
no one else is it so easy to talk as with You, O God. 

In my spiritual life, I will always hold on to the priest’s hand. About my soul’s life 
and its needs, I will speak only with my confessor. 

(119) + August 4, 1936. Inner torment for more than two hours. Agony 

Suddenly, God’s presence pervades me and I feel as though I am coming under 
the power of the just God. His justice pervades me to the marrow; outwardly I lose 
strength and consciousness. With this, I come to know the great holiness of God 
and my own great misery. A great torment affects my soul; the soul perceives its 
deeds to be not without blemish. Then the strength of trust is awakened in the 
soul, which longs for God with all its might. Yet is sees how miserable it is and 
what utter vanity everything that surrounds it. And face to face with such holiness, 
Oh, poor soul 

August 13. 

1 was tormented by terrible temptations all day; blasphemies thrust themselves 
upon my lips, and I felt an aversion for everything that is holy and godlike. Yet I 
struggled throughout the day. In the evening, my mind became oppressed: what’s 
the use of telling this to the confessor? ( 120 ) He will ridicule it. A feeling of 
aversion and discouragement filled my soul, and it seemed to me that I could by no 
means receive Holy Communion in that condition. At the thought of not receiving 
Communion, such a terrible pain seized my soul that I almost cried aloud in the 
chapel. But I suddenly realized that the sisters were there and decided to go to the 
garden and hide myself there so as to be able to at least cry out loud. Then 
suddenly, Jesus stood by me and said, Where are you intending to go? 



I gave no answer to Jesus, but poured out all my sorrow before Him, and Satan’s 
attempts ceased. Jesus then said to me, The inner peace that you have is a 
grace, and suddenly He was gone. I felt happy and unaccountably peaceful. 
Really, for so much peace to return within a moment - that is a thing only Jesus 
can do, He, the most high Lord. 



( 121 ) + August 7, 1936. 

When I received the article 136 about Divine Mercy with the image [on the cover], 
God’s presence filled me in an extraordinary way. When I steeped myself in a 



182 




prayer of thanksgiving, I suddenly saw the Lord Jesus in a great brightness, just as 
He is painted, and at His feet I saw Father Andrasz and Father Sopocko. Both 
were holding pens in their hands, and flashes of light and fire, like lightning, were 
coming from the tips of their pens and striking a great crowd of people who were 
hurrying I know not where. Whoever was touched by the ray of light immediately 
turned his back on the crowd and held out his hands to Jesus. Some returned with 
great joy, others with great pain and compunction. Jesus was looking at both 
priests with great kindness. After a while, I was left alone with Jesus, and I said, 
“Jesus, take me now, for Yours will has already been accomplished.” And Jesus 
answered, (122) My will has not yet been completely accomplished in you; 
you will still suffer much, but I am with you; do not fear. 

676 I have been talking much with the Lord about Father Andrasz and also about 
Father Sopocko. I know that whatever I ask of the Lord he will not refuse me, and 
He will give them that for which I ask. I sensed and I know how greatly Jesus 
loves them. I am not writing about this in detail, but I know this, and it makes me 
very happy. 

August 15, 1936 

677 During a Mass celebrated by Father Andrasz, a moment before the Elevation, 
God’s presence pervaded my soul, which was drawn to the altar. Then I saw the 
Mother of God with the Infant Jesus. The Infant Jesus was holding onto the hands 
of Our Lady. A moment later, the Infant Jesus ran with joy to the center of the 
altar, and the Mother of God said to me, See with what assurance I entrust Jesus 
into his hands. In the same way, you are to (1 23) entrust your soul and be like a 
child to him. 

After these words, my soul was filled with unusual trust. The Mother of God was 
clothed in a white dress, strangely white, transparent; on Her shoulders She had a 
transparent blue; that is, a blue-like mantle; with uncovered head [and] flowing hair, 
She was exquisite, and inconceivably beautiful. She was looking at Father with 
great tenderness, but after a moment, He broke up this beautiful Child, and living 
blood flowed forth. Father bent forward and received the true and living Jesus into 
himself. Had he eaten Him? I do not know how this took place. Jesus, Jesus, I 
cannot keep up with You, for in an instant, You become incomprehensible to me. 

678 The essence of the virtues is the will of God. He who does the will of God 
faithfully, practices all the virtues. In all the events and circumstances of my life, I 
adore and bless the holy will of God. The holy will of God is the object of my love. 
(124) In the most secret depths of my soul, I live according to His will. I act 
exteriorly according to what I recognize inwardly as the will of God. Sweeter to me 
are the torments, sufferings, persecutions, and all manner of adversities by divine 
will than popularity, praise, and esteem by my own will. 

679 Good night, my Jesus; the bell is calling me to sleep. My Jesus, You see that I am 
dying from the desire to save souls. Good night, my Beloved; I rejoice at being 
one day closer to eternity. And if You let me wake up tomorrow, Jesus, I shall 
begin a new hymn to Your praise. 



183 




680 



681 



682 



683 



684 



685 



686 



July 1 3. During meditation today, I came to understand that I should never speak 
about my own interior experiences, [but] that I should conceal nothing from my 
spiritual director; and I will especially ask God to enlighten my spiritual (125) 
director. I attach greater importance to the words of my confessor than to all the 
lights taken together that I receive interiorly. 

+ Amid the greatest torments, I fix the gaze of my soul upon Jesus Crucified; I do 
not expect help from people, but place my trust in God. In His unfathomable mercy 
lies all my hope. 

+ The more I feel that God is transforming me, the more I desire to immerse myself 
in silence. The love of God is doing its work in the depths of my soul. I see that 
the mission which the Lord has entrusted to me is beginning. 

+ Once, when I was praying fervently to the Jesuit Saints, I suddenly saw my 
Guardian Angel, who led me before the throne of God. I passed (126) through 
great hosts of saints, and I recognized many of them, whom I knew from their 
pictures. I saw many Jesuits, who asked me from what congregation I was. When 
I answered they asked, “Who is your spiritual director?” I answered that it was 

Father A When they wanted to say more, my Guardian Angel beckoned me to 

be silent, and I came before the throne of God. I saw a great and inaccessible 
light, and I saw a place destined for me, close to God. But what it was like I do not 
know, because a cloud covered it. However, my Guardian Angel said to me, “Here 
is your throne, for your faithfulness in fulfilling the will of God.” 

Holy Hour. - Thursday. During this hour of prayer, Jesus allowed me to enter the 
Cenacle, and I was a witness to what happened there. However, I was most 
deeply moved when, before the Consecration, Jesus raised (127) His eyes to 
heaven and entered into a mysterious conversation with His Father. It is only in 
eternity that we shall really understand that moment. His eyes were like two 
flames; His face was radiant, white as snow; His whole personage full of majesty, 
His soul full of longing. At the moment of Consecration, love rested satiated - the 
sacrifice fully consummated. Now only the external ceremony of death will be 
carried out - external destruction; the essence [of it] is in the Cenacle. Never in 
my whole life had I understood this mystery so profoundly as during that hour of 
adoration. Oh, how ardently I desire that the whole world would come to know this 
unfathomable mystery! 

After the Holy Hour, when I went to my cell, I suddenly learned how greatly God 
was offended by a certain person, who was close to my heart. At the sight of this, 
my soul was pierced with pain, and I cast myself in the dust before the Lord, 
begging His mercy. For two hours, in tears, prayer and flagellation I prevented 
(128) the sin, and I learned that God’s mercy had embraced that poor soul. Oh, 
the price of one single sin! 

+ September. First Friday. In the evening, I saw the Mother of God, with Her 
breast bared and pierced with a sword. She was shedding bitter tears and 
shielding us against God’s terrible punishment. God wants to inflict terrible 
punishment on us, but He cannot because the Mother of God is shielding us. 
Horrible fear seized my soul. I kept praying incessantly for Poland, for my dear 



184 




Poland, which is so lacking in gratitude for the Mother of God. If it were not for the 
Mother of God, all our efforts would be of little use. I intensified my prayers and 
sacrifices for our dear native land, but I see that I am a drop before the wave of 
evil. How can a drop stop a wave: Oyes! A drop is nothing of itself, but with You, 
Jesus, I shall stand up bravely to the whole wave of evil and even (129) to the 
whole of hell. Your omnipotence can do all things. 

687 Once, as I was going down the hall to the kitchen, I heard these words in my soul: 

Say unceasingly the chaplet that I have taught you. Whoever will recite it will 
receive great mercy at the hour of death. Priests will recommend it to 
sinners as their last hope of salvation. Even if there were a sinner most 
hardened, if he were to recite this chaplet only once, he would receive grace 
from My infinite mercy. I desire that the whole world know My infinite mercy. 
I desire to grant unimaginable graces to those souls who trust in My mercy. 

688 Jesus, Life and Truth, my Master, guide every step of my life, that I may act 
according to Your holy will. 

689 (130) + On one occasion, I saw the throne of the Lamb of God and before the throne 
three Saints: Stanislaus Kostka, Andrew Bobola and Prince Casimir, who were 
interceding for Poland. All at once I saw a large book which stands before the throne, 
and it was given to me to read. The book was written in blood. Still, I could not read 
anything but the name, Jesus. Then I heard a voice which said to me, Your hour has 
not yet come. Then the book was taken away from me, and I heard these words: 

You will bear witness to My infinite mercy. In this book are written the names of 
the souls that have glorified My mercy. I was overwhelmed with joy at the sight of 
such great goodness of God. 

690 + On one occasion, I came to know of the condition of two religious sisters who were 
grumbling interiorly about an order the Superior had given them, and for this reason 
God had withheld many special graces from them. (131) My heart ached at this sight. 
How sad it is, O Jesus, when we ourselves are the cause of the loss of graces. 
Whoever understands this is always faithful. 

691 + Thursday. Although I was very tired today, I nevertheless resolved to make a Holy 
Hour. I could not pray, nor could I remain kneeling, but I remained in prayer for a 
whole hour and united myself in spirit with those souls who are already worshipping 
God in the perfect way. But toward the end of the hour, I suddenly saw Jesus, who 
looked at me penetratingly and said with ineffable sweetness, Your prayer is 
extremely pleasing to Me. After these words, an unusual power and spiritual joy 
entered my soul. God’s presence continued to pervade my soul. Oh, what happens 
to a soul that meets the Lord face to face, no pen has ever expressed or ever will 
express! 

692 (132) + O Jesus, I understand that Your mercy is beyond all imagining, and therefore I 
ask You to make my heart so big that there will be room in it for the needs of all the 
souls living on the face of the earth. O Jesus, my love extends beyond the world, to 
the souls suffering in purgatory, and I want to exercise mercy toward them by means 
of indulgenced prayers. God’s mercy is unfathomable and inexhaustible, just as God 
Himself is unfathomable. Even if I were to use the strongest words there are to 



185 




express this mercy of God, all this would be nothing in comparison with what it is in 
reality. O Jesus, make my heart sensitive to all the sufferings of my neighbor, whether 
of body or of soul. O my Jesus, I know that You act toward us as we act toward our 
neighbor. 

My Jesus, make my heart like unto Your merciful Heart. Jesus, help me to go through 
life doing good to everyone. 

693 (133) September 14, [1936]. The Archbishop [Jalbrzykowski] of Vilnius visited us. 
Although he stayed with us for a very short time, I still had a chance to talk with this 
worthy priest about the work of mercy. He showed himself very favorably disposed to 
this cause of mercy: “Sister, be completely at peace; if this is within the plans of divine 
providence, it will come about. In the meantime, Sister, pray for a clearer outward 
sign. Let the Lord Jesus give you a clearer knowledge of this. I beg you to wait a little 
while longer. The Lord Jesus will arrange the circumstances in such a way that 
everything will turn out all right.” 

694 September 19, 1936. When we left the doctor’s 137 [office] and stepped into the 
sanatorium chapel for a moment, I heard these words in my soul: My child, just a 
few more drops in your chalice; it won’t be long now. Joy (134) filled my soul; this 
was the first call from my beloved Spouse and Master. My heart melted, and there 
was a moment when my soul was immersed in the whole sea of God’s mercy. I felt 
that my mission was beginning in all its fullness. Death destroys nothing that is good. 

I pray most of all for souls that are experiencing inner sufferings. 

695 Once, I received light concerning two sisters. I understood that it is not possible for a 
person to act in the same manner towards everyone. There are some people who 
have a strange way of making friends with others. And then, as friends and under the 
pretext of that friendship, they manage to draw the person out, word by word. Then, 
when the right moment comes, they use those very same words to hurt that person. 

My Jesus, how strange is human frailty! Your love, Jesus, gives the soul this great 
prudence in its dealings with others. 

696 (1 35) + September 24, 1 936. 

Mother Superior [Irene] ordered me to say one decade of the rosary in place of all the 
other exercises, and to go to bed at once. As soon as I lay down I fell asleep, for I 
was very tired. But a while later, I was awakened by suffering. It was such a great 
suffering that it prevented me from making even the slightest movement; I could not 
even swallow my saliva. This lasted for about three hours. I thought of waking up the 
novice sister 138 who shared my room, but then I thought, “She cannot give me any 
help, so let her sleep. It would be a pity to wake her.” I resigned myself completely to 
the will of God and thought that the day of my death, so much desired, had come. It 
was an occasion for me to unite myself with Jesus, suffering on the Cross. Beyond 
that, I was unable to pray. When the suffering ceased, I began (136) to perspire. But 
I still could not move, as the pain would return at each attempt. In the morning, I felt 
very tired, though I felt no further physical pain. Still, I could not get up to attend 
Mass. I thought to myself, if after such suffering death does not come, then how great 
the sufferings of death must be! 



186 




697 



Jesus, You know that I love suffering and want to drain the cup of suffering to the last 
drop; and yet, my nature experienced a slight shudder and fear. Quickly, however, my 
trust in the infinite mercy of God was awakened in all its force, and everything else 
had to give way before it, like a shadow retreating before the sun’s rays. O Jesus, 
how great is Your goodness! Your infinite goodness, so well known to me, enables 
me to bravely look death itself in the eye. I know that nothing will happen to me 
without God’s permission. I desire to glorify Your infinite mercy during my life, at the 
hour of death, in the resurrection and throughout eternity. 

(137) + My Jesus, my strength, my peace, my repose; my soul bathes daily in the rays 
of Your mercy. There is not a moment in my life when I do not experience Your 
mercy, O God. I count on nothing in my whole life, but only on Your infinite mercy. It 
is the guiding thread of my life, O Lord. My soul is filled with God’s mercy. 

698 + Oh, how sorely Jesus is hurt by the ingratitude of a chosen soul! What a martyrdom 
it is for His unspeakable love! God loves us with the entire infinite Being that he is; 
and imagine, a miserable particle of dust scorns that love! My heart bursts with pain 
when I see this ingratitude. 

699 On one occasion, I heard these words: My daughter, tell the whole world about My 
inconceivable (138) mercy. I desire that the Feast of Mercy 139 be a refuge and 
shelter for all souls, and especially for poor sinners. On that day the very 
depths of My tender mercy are open. I pour out a whole ocean of graces upon 
those souls who approach the Fount of My Mercy. The soul that will go to 
Confession and receive Holy Communion shall obtain complete forgiveness of 
sins and punishment. On that day all the divine floodgates through which 
graces flow are opened. Let no soul fear to draw near to Me, even though its 
sins be as scarlet. My mercy is so great that no mind, be it of man or of angel, 
will be able to fathom it throughout all eternity. Everything that exists has come 
forth from the very depths of My most tender mercy. Every soul in its relation to 
Me will contemplate My love and mercy throughout eternity. The Feast of Mercy 
emerged from My very depths of tenderness. (139) It is My desire that it be 
solemnly celebrated on the first Sunday after Easter. Mankind will not have 
peace until it turns to the Fount of My Mercy. 

700 + Once, when I was very tired and in much pain, I told Mother Superior [Irene] about it 
and received the answer that I should get used to suffering. I listened to everything 
that Mother told me, and then I went out. Our Mother Superior has great love of 
neighbor and especially great love for the sick sisters, as everyone knows. And yet, 
as regards me, it is extraordinary that the Lord Jesus has permitted that she not 
understand me and that she test me much in this respect. 

701 On this particular day, when I was feeling so bad and still went to work, every now and 
then I would feel sick. It was so very hot that, even without working, a person felt 
terrible, (140) not to mention what it was like when one had to work while suffering. 

So, before noon, I straightened up from my work, looked up to the sky with great trust 
and said to the Lord, “Jesus, cover the sun, for I cannot stand this heat any longer.” 
And, O wonder, at that very moment a white cloud covered the sun and, from then on, 
the heat became less intense. When a little while later I began to reproach myself that 
I did not bear the heat, but begged for relief, Jesus Himself put me at ease. 



187 




702 August 13, 1936. Tonight God’s presence is pervading me, and in an instant I come 
to know the great holiness of God. Oh, how the greatness of God overwhelms me! I 
then come to know the whole depth of my nothingness. This is a great torment, for 
this knowledge is followed by love. The soul bounds forward vehemently toward God, 
and the two loves come face to face: the Creator and the creature; (141) one little 
drop seeks to measure itself with the ocean. At first, the little drop wants to enclose 
the infinite ocean within itself; but at the same moment, it knows itself to be just one 
small drop, and thus it is vanquished, and it passes completely into God like a drop 
into the ocean. At first, this moment is a torment, but so sweet that, on experiencing it, 
the soul is happy. 

703 At present, the topic of my particular examen is my union with the Merciful Christ! 

This practice gives me unusual strength; my heart is always united with the One it 
desires, and its actions are regulated by mercy, which flows from love. 

704 I spend every free moment at the feet of the hidden God. He is my Master; I ask Him 
about everything; I speak to Him about everything. Here I obtain strength and light; 
here I learn everything; here I am given light on how to act toward my neighbor. From 
the time (142) I left the novitiate, I have enclosed myself in the tabernacle together 
with Jesus, my Master. He Himself drew me into the fire of living love on which 
everything converges. 

705 September 25. I suffer great pain in my hands, feet and side, the places where Jesus’ 
body was pierced. I experience these pains particularly when I meet with a soul who 
is not in the state of grace. Then I pray fervently that the mercy of God will embrace 
that soul. 

706 [September] 29. On the Feast of Saint Michael the Archangel, I saw by my side that 
great Leader, who spoke these words to me: “The Lord has ordered me to take 
special care of you. Know that you are hated by evil; but do not fear - “’’Who is like 
God!’ “ And he disappeared. But I feel his presence and assistance. 

707 (143) October 2, 1 936. The First Friday of the month. After Holy Communion, I 
suddenly saw the Lord Jesus, who spoke these words to me: Now I know that it is 
not for the graces or gifts that you love me, but because My will is dearer to you 
than life. That is why I am uniting Myself with you so intimately as with no other 
creature. 

708 At that moment, Jesus disappeared. My soul was filled with the presence of God. I 
know that the gaze of the Mighty One rests upon me. I plunged myself completely in 
the joy that flows from God. I continued throughout the whole day without interruption, 
thus immersed in God. In the evening, I fell as if into a faint and a strange sort of 
agony. My love wants to equal the love of the Mighty One. It is drawn to Him so 
vehemently that it is impossible, without some special grace from God, to bear the 
vastness of such a grace in this life. But I see clearly that Jesus Himself is sustaining 
me and strengthening me and making me capable of communing with Him. In all this, 
the soul is particularly active. 



188 




709 



710 



711 



712 



713 



714 



(144) October 3, 1 936. During the rosary today, I suddenly saw a ciborium with the 
Blessed Sacrament. The ciborium was uncovered and quite filled with hosts. From 
the ciborium came a voice: These hosts have been received by souls converted 
through your prayer and suffering. At this point, I felt God’s presence as a child 
would; I felt strangely like a child. 

When one day I felt I would be unable to carry on till nine and asked S.N. 140 for 
something to eat, because I was going to bed earlier as I was not feeling well, S.N. 
answered, “But you are not ill, Sister; they only wanted you to have some rest, so they 
made up the illness.” O my Jesus, my illness is so far advanced 141 that the doctor has 
separated me from the sisters to prevent them from becoming infected, and yet one is 
judged in this way. But that’s good; all this is for You, my Jesus. I do not want to write 
much about external matters, for they are not the reason for my writing; (145) I want in 
particular to note the graces granted me by the Lord, because these are not only for 
me, but for many other souls as well. 

October 5, [1936]. Today I received a letter from Father Sopocko. I learned that he 
intends to publish a holy card of the Merciful Christ. He asked me to send him a 
certain prayer 142 which he wants to put on the back, if he receives the Archbishop’s 
approbation. Oh, what great joy fills my heart that God has let me see this work of His 
mercy! How great is this work of the Most High God! I am but His instrument. Oh, 
how ardently I desire to see this Feast of the Divine Mercy which God is demanding 
through me. But if it is the will of God that it be celebrated solemnly only after my 
death, even so I rejoice in it already, and I celebrate it interiorly with my confessor’s 
permission. 

(146) + I saw Father Andrasz today, kneeling and engulfed in prayer, and suddenly 
Jesus stood by him and, holding out both hands over his head, He said to me: - He 

will lead you through; do not fear. 

October 1 1 . This evening, as I was writing about this great mercy of God and its great 
advantage to souls, Satan rushed into my room with great anger and fury. He seized 
the screen and began to break and crush it. I was a little frightened at first, but 
immediately made the sign of the cross with my little crucifix, and the beast fell quiet 
and disappeared at once. Today, I did not see this hideous figure but only his anger. 
Satan’s anger is terrible, and yet the screen was not shattered or broken, and I went 
on writing quietly. I know well that the wretch will not touch me without God’s willing it, 
but what is he up to? He is beginning to attack me openly (147) and with such great 
fury and hate, but he does not disturb my peace for a moment, and this composure of 
mine makes him furious. 

+ The Lord said to me today: Go to the Superior and tell her that I want all the 
sisters and wards to say the chaplet which I have taught you. They are to say it 
for nine days in the chapel in order to appease My Father and to entreat God’s 
mercy for Poland. I answered the Lord that I would tell her, but that I must first speak 
about this with Father Andrasz, and I resolved that as soon as Father comes I will 
speak to him at once about this matter. When Father arrived, the circumstances were 
such that they prevented me from seeing him, but I should not have paid any attention 
to the circumstances and should have gone and settled the matter. I thought to 
myself, “Well, I’ll do it when he comes again.” 



189 




715 



716 

717 

718 



719 

720 

721 

722 

723 



Oh, how much (148) that displeased God! In one moment, the presence of God left 
me, that great presence of God which is continuously within me in a distinctly felt way. 
At that moment, however, it completely left me. Darkness dominated my soul to such 
an extent that I did not know whether I was in the state of grace or not. Therefore, I 
did not receive Holy Communion for four days, after which I saw Father Andrasz and 
told him everything. He comforted me, saying, “You have not lost the grace of God, 
but all the same, be true to Him.’” The moment I left the confessional, God’s presence 
enveloped me as before. I understood that God’s grace must be received just as God 
sends it, in the way He wants, and one must receive it in that form under which God 
sends it to us. 

O my Jesus, I am making at this very moment a firm and eternal resolution by virtue of 
Your grace and mercy, fidelity to the tiniest grace of Yours. 

(149) All night long, I was preparing to receive Holy Communion, since I could not 
sleep because of physical suffering. My soul was flooded with love and repentance. 

After Holy Communion, I heard these words:- You see what you are of yourself, but 
do not be frightened at this. If I were to reveal to you the whole misery that you 
are, you would die of terror. However, be aware of what you are. Because you 
are such great misery, I have revealed to you the whole ocean of My mercy. I 
seek and desire souls like yours, but they are few. Your great trust in Me forces 
Me to continuously grant you graces. You have great and incomprehensible 
rights over My Heart, for you are a daughter of complete trust. You would not 
have been able to bear the magnitude of the love which I have for you if I had 
revealed it to you fully here on earth. I often give you a glimpse of it, but know 
that this is only an exceptional grace from Me. My love and mercy knows no 
bounds. 

(150) Today, I heard these words: Know, my child, that for your sake I grant 
blessings to this whole vicinity. But you ought to thank Me on their behalf, as 
they do not thank Me for the kindnesses I extend to them. For the sake of your 
gratitude, I will continue to bless them. 

O my Jesus, You know how difficult community life is, how many misunderstandings 
and misconceptions, despite at times the most sincere good will on both sides. But 
that is Your mystery, O Lord. We shall know it in eternity; however, our judgments 
should always be mild. 

It is a great, an immeasurably great grace of God to have a spiritual director. I feel 
now that, without him, I would not be able to journey alone in my spiritual life. Great is 
the power of a priest. I thank God unceasingly for giving me a spiritual director. 

(151) + Today, I head these words: You see how weak you are, so when shall I be 
able to count on you? I answered, “Jesus, be always with me, for I am Your little 
child. Jesus, You know what little children do.” 

+ Today, I heard these words: The graces I grant you are not for you alone, but 
for a great number of other souls as well.... And your heart is My constant 



190 




724 



725 



726 



727 



728 



729 



dwelling place, despite the misery that you are. I united Myself with you, take 
away your misery and give you My mercy. I perform works of mercy in every 
soul. The greater the sinner, the greater the right he has to My mercy. My 
mercy is confirmed in every work of My hands. He who trusts in My mercy will 
not perish, for all his affairs are mine, and his enemies will be shattered at the 
base of My footstool. 

( 152 ) On the eve of the retreat, I started to pray that the Lord Jesus might give me 
just a little health so that I could take part in the retreat, because I was feeling so ill 
that I thought perhaps it might be my last. However, as soon as I had started praying I 
felt a strange dissatisfaction. I interrupted the prayer of supplication and began to 
thank the Lord for everything He sends me, submitting myself completely to His holy 
will. Then I felt profound peace of soul. 

+ Faithful submission to the will of God, always and everywhere, in all events and 
circumstances of life, gives great glory to God. Such submission to the will of God 
carries more weight with Him than long fasts, mortifications and the most severe 
penances. Oh, how great is the reward for one act of loving submission to the will of 
God! As I write, my soul is enraptured at the thought of how much God loves it and of 
the peace that my soul already enjoys, here on earth. 

+ 

( 153 ) J.M.J. Cracow, 1936 



O Divine Will, be my love! 

+ Eight-day Retreat, October 20, 1936. 

My Jesus, I am going into the wilderness today to speak only with You, my Master and 
my Lord. Let the earth be silent, and You alone speak to me, Jesus. You know that I 
understand no other voice but Yours, O Good Shepherd. In the dwelling of my heart 
is that wilderness to which no creature has access. There, You alone are King. 

+ When I entered the chapel for a five-minute adoration, I asked the Lord Jesus how I 
should conduct myself during this retreat. Then I heard this voice in my soul: I desire 
that you be entirely transformed into love and that you burn ardently as a pure 
victim of love.... 

( 154 ) Eternal Truth, give me a ray of Your light that I may come to know You, O Lord, 
and worthily glorify Your infinite mercy. And at the same time, grant me to know 
myself, the whole abyss of misery that I am. 

+ I have chosen Saint Claude de la Colombiere and Saint Gertrude as my patron 
saints for this retreat, that they may intercede for me before the Mother of God and the 
merciful Savior. 

During the meditation on creation... at a certain point, my soul became closely united 
to its Lord and Creator. In this union, I recognized the purpose and destiny of my life. 
My purpose is to become closely united to God through love, and my destiny is to 
praise and glorify God’s mercy. 



191 



730 



731 



732 



733 



734 



735 



The Lord has allowed me to know and experience this in a distinct and even physical 
way. I become lost in admiration when I recognize and experience this 
incomprehensible love of God with which God loves me. Who is God - and what am I 
(155) I cannot meditate on this any further. Only love can understand this meeting of 
two spirits, namely, God-who-is-Spirit and the soul-who-is-creature. The more I know 
Him, the more completely, with all the strength of my being, I drown in Him. 

+ In this retreat, I shall keep you continually close to My Heart, that you may 
better know My mercy, that mercy which I have for people and especially for 
poor sinners. 

On the initial day of the retreat, I was visited by one of the sisters 143 who had come to 
make her perpetual vows. She confided to me that she had no trust in God and 
became discouraged at every little thing. I answered her, “It is well that you have told 
me this, Sister; I will pray for you.” And I spoke a few words to her about how much 
distrust hurts the Lord Jesus, especially distrust on the part of a chosen soul. She told 
me that, beginning with her perpetual vows, she would practice trust. Now I know that 
even [some] souls that are chosen and well-advanced (156) in the religious life or the 
spiritual life do not have the courage to entrust themselves completely to God. And 
this is so because few souls know the unfathomable mercy of God and His great 
goodness. 

+ The great majesty of God which pervaded me today and still pervades me awoke in 
me a great fear, but a fear filled with respect, and not the fear of a slave, which is quite 
different from the fear of respect. This fear animated by respect arose in my heart 
today because of love and the knowledge of the greatness of God, and that is a great 
joy to the soul. The soul trembles before the smallest offense against God; but that 
does not trouble or darken its happiness. There, where love is in charge, all is well. 

It sometimes happens, while I am listening to the meditation, that one word puts me in 
very close union with the Lord, and I no longer know what Father 144 is saying. I know 
that I am close to the most merciful Heart of Jesus; my whole spirit is entirely plunged 
in Him, and in one moment (157) I learn more than during long hours of intellectual 
inquiry and meditation. These are sudden lights which permit me to know things as 
God sees them, regarding matters of both the interior and the exterior world. 

I see that Jesus Himself is acting in my soul during this retreat. And as for me, I try 
only to be faithful to His grace. I have submitted my soul completely to the influence 
of God. This Mighty Ruler of heaven has taken entire possession of my soul. I feel 
that I am being lifted up above earth and heaven into the inner life of God, where I 
come to know the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, but always in the unity of 
majesty. 

+ I will enclose myself in the chalice of Jesus so that I may comfort Him continually. I 
will do everything within my power to save souls, and I will do it through prayer and 
suffering. 

(158) + I try always to be a Bethany for Jesus, so that He may rest here after all His 
labor. In Holy Communion, my union with Jesus is so intimate and incomprehensible 



192 




that even if I wanted to describe it in writing I could not do so, because I lack the 
words. 



736 

737 

738 

739 

740 

741 



This evening, I saw the Lord Jesus just as He was during His Passion. His eyes were 
raised up to His Father, and He was praying for us. 

+ Although I was ill, I made up my mind to make a Holy Hour today as usual. During 
that hour, I saw the Lord Jesus being scourged at the pillar. In the midst of this 
frightful torture, Jesus was praying. After a while, He said to me, There are few souls 
who contemplate My Passion with true feeling; I give great graces to souls who 
meditate devoutly on My Passion. 

+ Without special help from Me, you are not even capable of accepting My 
graces. You know who you are. 

(159) After Holy Communion today, I spoke at length to the Lord Jesus about people 
who are special to me. Then I heard these words: My daughter, don’t be exerting 
yourself so much with words. Those whom you love in a special way, I too love 
in a special way, and for your sake, I shower My graces upon them. I am 
pleased when you tell Me about them, but don’t be doing so with such 
excessive effort. 

+ O Savior of the world. I unite myself with Your mercy. My Jesus, I join all my 
sufferings to Yours and deposit them in the treasury of the Church for the benefit of 
souls. 

Today, I was led by an Angel to the chasms of hell. It is a place of great torture; how 
awesomely large and extensive it is! The kinds of tortures I saw: the first torture that 
constitutes hell is the loss of God; the second is perpetual remorse of conscience; the 
third is that one’s condition will never change; (160) the fourth is the fire that will 
penetrate the soul without destroying it - a terrible suffering, since it is purely spiritual 
fire, lit by God’s anger; the fifth torture is continual darkness and a terrible suffocating 
smell, and despite the darkness, the devils and the souls of the damned see each 
other and all the evil, both of others and their own; the sixth torture is the constant 
company of Satan; the seventh torture is horrible despair, hatred of God, vile words, 
curses and blasphemies. These are the tortures suffered by all the damned together, 
but that is not the end of the sufferings. There are special tortures destined for 
particular souls. These are the torments of the senses. Each soul undergoes terrible 
and indescribable sufferings, related to the manner in which it has sinned. There are 
caverns and pits of torture where one form of agony differs from another. I would 
have died at the very sight of these tortures if the omnipotence of God had not 
supported me. Let the sinner know that he will be tortured throughout all eternity, in 
those senses which he made use of to sin. (161) I am writing this at the command of 
God, so that no soul may find an excuse by saying there is no hell, or that nobody has 
ever been there, and so no one can say what it is like. 

I, Sister Faustina, by the order of God, have visited the abysses of hell so that I might 
tell souls about it and testify to its existence. I cannot speak about it now; but I have 
received a command from God to leave it in writing. The devils were full of hatred for 
me, but they had to obey me at the command of God. What I have written is but a 



193 




pale shadow of the things I saw. But I noticed one thing: that most of the souls there 
are those who disbelieved that there is a hell. When I came to, I could hardly recover 
from the fright. How terribly souls suffer there! Consequently, I pray even more 
fervently for the conversion of sinners. I incessantly plead God’s mercy upon them. O 
my Jesus, I would rather be in agony until the end of the world, amidst the greatest 
sufferings, than offend You by the least sin. 

+ 

(162) J.M.J. 

742 My daughter, if I demand through you that people revere My mercy, you should 

be the first to distinguish yourself by this confidence in My mercy. I demand 
from you deeds of mercy, which are to arise out of love for Me. You are to show 
mercy to your neighbors always and everywhere. You must not shrink from this 
or try to excuse or absolve yourself from it. 

I am giving you three ways of exercising mercy toward your neighbor: the first- 
by deed, the second - by word, the third - by prayer. In these three degrees is 
contained the fullness of mercy, and it is an unquestionable proof of love for 
Me. By this means a soul glorifies and pays reverence to My mercy. Yes, the 
first Sunday after Easter is the Feast of Mercy, but there must also be acts of 
mercy, and I demand the worship of My mercy through the solemn celebration 
of the Feast and through the veneration of the image which is painted. By 
means of this image I shall grant many graces to souls. It is to be a reminded of 
the demands of My mercy, because even the strongest (163) faith is of no avail 
without works. O my Jesus, You Yourself must help me in everything, because You 
see how very little I am, and so I depend solely on Your goodness, O God. 

+ Particular Examen 



743 Two general resolutions: 

First : To strive after inner silence and to observe the rule of silence strictly. 

Second: Faithfulness to interior inspirations; to bring them into my life and actions 
according to the advice of my spiritual director. 

In this present illness, I desire to glorify the will of God. I will try, as far as I am able, to 
take part (164) in all the community exercises. I will give the Lord God fervent thanks 
for every sorrow and suffering. 

744 + I often feel that, apart from Jesus, I get no help from anyone, although sometimes I am 
very much in need of clarifications concerning the demands of the Lord. 

This evening, I suddenly received light from God regarding a certain matter. For twelve 
years, I have been reflecting on a certain matter and could not understand it. Today, 
Jesus gave me to know how much that had pleased Him. 

The Feast of Christ the King. [October 25, 1936] 



194 




745 During Holy Mass, I was so enveloped in the great interior fire of God’s love and the 
desire to save souls that I do not know how to express it. I feel I am all aflame. I shall 
fight all evil with the weapon of mercy. I am being burned up by the desire to save souls. 

I traverse the world’s length and breadth (165) and venture as far as its ultimate limits 
and its wildest lands to save souls. I do this through prayer and sacrifice. I want every 
soul to glorify the mercy of God, for each one experiences the effects of that mercy on 
himself. The Saints in heaven worship the mercy of the Lord. I want to worship it even 
now, here on earth, and to spread devotion to it in the way that God demands of me. 

746 I have understood that at certain and most difficult moments I shall be alone, deserted by 
everyone, and that I must face all the storms and fight with all the strength of my soul, 
even with those from whom I expected to get help. 

But I am not alone, because Jesus is with me, and with Him I fear nothing. I am well 
aware of everything, and I know what God is demanding of me. Suffering, contempt, 
ridicule, persecution, and humiliation will be my constant lot. I know no other way. For 
sincere love - ingratitude; this is my path, marked out by the footprints of Jesus. 

(166) My Jesus, my strength and my only hope, in You alone is all my hope. My trust will 
not be frustrated. 

747 The day of renewal of vows [Friday, October 30, 1936], God’s presence pervades my 
soul, not only in a spiritual way, but I feel it in a physical way also. 

748 November 2, [1 936], In the evening after Vespers, I went to the cemetery [in the sisters’ 
park], I had been praying for a while when I saw one of our sisters, who said to me, :We 
are in the chapel.” I understood that I was to go to the chapel and there pray and gain 
the indulgences. The next day, during Holy Mass, I saw three white doves soaring from 
the altar toward heaven. I understood that not only the three souls that I saw had gone to 
heaven, but also many others who had died beyond the confines of our institute. Oh, 
how good and merciful is the Lord! 

749 (167) Conversation with Father Andrasz, at the end of the retreat. I was greatly surprised 
by one thing that I noticed during each conversation in the course of which I had asked 
advice and direction of Father Andrasz, and it is this: I noticed that Father Andrasz 
answered all my questions about things which the Lord had asked of me so clearly and 
with such assurance that it was a though he were experiencing it all himself. O my 
Jesus, if only there were more spiritual directors of this kind, souls under such guidance 
would very quickly reach the summits of sanctity and would not waste such great graces! 

I give unceasing thanks to God for so great a grace; namely, that in His great goodness 
He has deigned to place these pillars of light along the path of my spiritual life. They light 
my way so that I do not go astray or become delayed in my journey toward close union 
with the Lord. I have a great love for the Church, which educates souls and leads them 
to God. 

750 (168) October 31 , 1936. Conversation with Mother General [Michael]. 

When I was talking to Mother General about the question of my leaving the Order, I 
received this answer: “If Jesus demands of you that you leave this Congregation, let Him 
give me some sign that this is His will. Sister, pray for such a sign, because I am worried 



195 




lest you should fall prey to some illusion. On the other hand, I would not want to hinder or 
oppose the will of God, for I too want to do the will of God.” And so, we agreed that I will 
still remain just as I am, until such time as the Lord will let Mother General know that He 
demands that I leave this Congregation. And so the matter was put off for a while. 

751 And so You see, Jesus, that everything is now up to You. I am perfectly at peace, despite 
these great urgings. For my part, I have done everything, and it is now Your turn, my 
Jesus, and in this way (169) Your cause will be made apparent. I am totally in accord 
with Your will; do with me as You please, O Lord, but only grant me the grace of loving 
You more and more ardently. This is what is most precious to me. I desire nothing but 
You, O Love Eternal! It matters not along what paths You will lead me, paths of pain or 
paths of joy. I want to love You at every moment of my life. If You tell me to leave, O 
Jesus, in order to carry out Your will, I will leave. If you tell me to stay, I will stay. It 
matters not what I will suffer, in the one instance or the other. O my Jesus, if I leave, I 
know what I shall have to suffer and endure. I agreed to this with full awareness, and I 
have already accepted it by an act of the will. It does not matter what the chalice holds 
for me. It is enough for me to know that it has been given to me by the loving hand of 
God. If you tell me to turn back and stay, I will stay in spite of all the interior urgings. If 
You still keep them (170) in my soul and leave me in this inner agony even to the end of 
my life, I accept this in the full consciousness of my will and in loving submission to You, 
O my God. If I stay, I shall hide myself in Your mercy, my God, so deeply that no human 
eye will see me. Throughout my life, I want to be a thurible filled with hidden fire, and 
may the smoke rising up to You, O Living Host, be pleasing to You. I feel in my own 
heart that every little sacrifice arouses the fire of my love for You, but in such a silent and 
secret way that no one will detect it. 

752 When I told Mother General that the Lord wanted the Congregation to say the chaplet in 
order to propitiate God’s anger, Mother told me that at present she could not introduce 

new prayers that had not yet been approved “But give me the chaplet, Sister, [she 

said;] perhaps it can be said during an adoration. We (171) shall see. It would be good if 
Father Sopocko could publish a pamphlet with the chaplet; then it would be better and 
easier to recite it in the Congregation, for it is a bit difficult to do so now.” 

753 The mercy of the Lord is praised by the holy souls in heaven who have themselves 
experienced that infinite mercy. What these souls do in heaven, I already will begin to do 
here on earth. I will praise God for His infinite goodness, and I will strive to bring other 
souls to know and glorify the inexpressible and incomprehensible mercy of God. 

754 + The Lord’s Promise: The souls that say this chaplet will be embraced by My mercy 
during their lifetime and especially at the hour of their death. 

755 O my Jesus, teach me to open the bosom of mercy and love to everyone who asks for it. 
Jesus, my Commander, teach me so that all my prayers and deeds may bear the seal of 
Your mercy. 

756 (172) November 18, 1936. Today I tried to make all my exercises before Benediction, 
because I was feeling more ill than usual. So I went to bed directly after Benediction. 

But when I entered the bedroom, I suddenly knew interiorly that I should go to the cell of 
S.N. 145 because she was in need of help. I entered her cell at once, and S.N. said to me, 
“Oh, how good it is that God has brought you here, Sister!” And her voice was so faint 



196 




that I could hardly hear her. She said to me, “Sister, please bring me some tea with 
lemon, because I am terribly thirsty, and I cannot move because I am in such pain.” And 
truly, she was suffering very much and had a high fever. I made her more comfortable, 
and she was able to quench her thirst with the little bit of tea that I brought her. When I 
entered my own cell, my soul was engulfed by the great love of God, and I understood 
that we should take great heed of our interior inspirations and follow them faithfully, and 
that faithfulness to one grace draws down others. 

757 (173) November 19, [1936]. During Mass today, I saw the Lord Jesus, who said to me, 

Be at peace, My daughter; I see your efforts, which are very pleasing to Me. And 

the Lord disappeared, and it was time for Holy Communion. After I received Holy 
Communion, I suddenly saw the Cenacle and in it Jesus and the Apostles. I saw the 
institution of the Most Blessed Sacrament. Jesus allowed me to penetrate His interior, 
and I came to know the greatness of His majesty and, at the same time, His great 
humbling of Himself. The extraordinary light that allowed me to see His majesty revealed 
to me, at the same time, what was in my own soul. 

758 Jesus gave me to know the depth of His meekness and humility and to understand that 
He clearly demanded the same of me. I felt the gaze of God in my soul. This filled me 
with unspeakable love, but I understood that the Lord was looking with love on my virtues 
and my heroic efforts, and I knew that this was what was drawing God into my heart. It is 
from this that I have come to understand that it is not enough for me to strive only for the 
ordinary virtues, but that I must try to exercise (174) the heroic virtues. Although 
exteriorly a thing may be quite ordinary, it is the different manner [in which it is carried 
out] that only the eye of God catches. O my Jesus, what I have written is just a pale 
shadow of what I understand in my soul; these are purely spiritual things, but in order to 
write something of what the Lord gives me to know, I must use words with which I am 
totally dissatisfied, because they do not express the reality. 

759 When I experienced these sufferings for the first time, it was like this: after the annual 

vows, 146 on a certain day, during prayer, I saw a great brilliance and, issuing from the 
brilliance, rays which completely enveloped me. Then suddenly, I felt a terrible pain in 
my hands, my feet and my side and the thorns of the crown of thorns. I experienced 
these sufferings during Holy Mass on Friday, but this was only for a brief moment. This 
was repeated for several Fridays, and later on I did not experience any sufferings up to 
the present time; that is, up to the end of September (175) of this year. In the course of 
the present illness, during Holy Mass one Friday, I felt myself pierced by the same 
sufferings, and this has been repeated on every Friday and sometimes when I meet a 
soul that is not in the state of grace. Although this is infrequent, and the suffering lasts a 
very short time, still it is terrible, and I would not be able to bear it without a special grace 
from God. There is no outward indication of these sufferings. What will come later, I do 
not know. All this, for the sake of souls 

760 November 21 , [1 936]. Jesus, You see that I am neither gravely ill nor in good health. 

You fill my soul with enthusiasm for action, and I have no strength. The fire of Your love 
burns in me, and for what I cannot accomplish by physical strength, love will 
compensate. 

761 Jesus, my spirit yearns for You, and I desire very much to be united with You, but Your 
works hold me back. The number of souls that I am to bring to You is not yet complete. I 



197 




desire toil and suffering; let everything You have planned (176) before the ages be 
fulfilled in me, O my Creator and Lord! It is only Your word that I understand; it alone 
gives me strength. Your Spirit, O Lord, is the Spirit of Peace; and nothing troubles my 
depths because You dwell there, O Lord. 

I know that I am under Your special gaze, O Lord. I do not examine with fear Your plans 
regarding me; my task is to accept everything from Your hand. I do not fear anything, 
although the storm is raging, and frightful bolts strike all around me, and I then feel quite 
alone. Yet, my heart senses You, and my trust grows, and I see all Your omnipotence 
which upholds me. With You, Jesus, I go through life, amid storms and rainbows, with a 
cry of joy, singing the song of Your mercy. I will not stop singing my song of love until the 
choir of Angels picks it up. There is no power than can stop me in my flight toward god. I 
see that even the superiors do not always understand the road along which God is 
leading me, and I am not surprised at this. 

762 (177) Once, I saw Father Sopocko praying as he was reflecting on these matters. Then I 
saw how a ring of light appeared suddenly above his head. Although distance separates 
us, I often see him, especially as he works at his desk, despite his fatigue. 

763 November 22, [1936]. Today during confession, the Lord Jesus spoke to me through the 
lips of a certain priest. This priest did not know my soul, and I only accused myself of my 
sins; yet he spoke these words to me: “Accomplish faithfully everything that Jesus asks 
of you, despite the difficulties. Know that, although people may be angry with you, Jesus 
is not angry and never will be angry with you. Pay no attention to human opinion.” This 
instruction surprised me at first; but I understood that the Lord was speaking through him 
without his realizing it. O holy mystery, what great treasures are contained in you! O 
holy faith, you are my guidepost! 

764 (178) November 24. Today I received a letter from Father Sopocko. 147 I learned from it 
that God Himself is conducting this whole affair. And as the Lord has begun it, so will He 
continue to carry it along. And the greater the difficulties which I see, the more am I at 
peace. Oh, if in this whole matter the glory of God and the profit to souls were not greatly 
served, Satan would not be opposing it so much. But he senses what he is going to lose 
because of it. I have now learned that Satan hates mercy more than anything else. It is 
his greatest torment. Still, the word of God will not pass away; God’s utterance is living; 
difficulties will not suppress the works of God, but show that they are God’s. . . . 

765 On one occasion, I saw the convent of the new congregation. 148 As I walked about, 
inspecting everything, I suddenly saw a crowd of children who seemed to be no older 
than five to eleven years of age. When they saw me they surrounded me and began to 
cry out, “Defend us from evil,” (179) and they led me into the chapel which was in this 
convent. When I entered the chapel, I saw the distressful Lord Jesus. Jesus looked at 
me graciously and said that He was gravely offended by children: You are to defend 
them from evil. From that moment, I have been praying for children, but I feel that 
prayer alone is not enough. 

766 O my Jesus, you know what efforts are needed to live sincerely and unaffectedly with 
those from whom our nature flees, or with those who, deliberately or not, have made us 
suffer. Humanly speaking, this is impossible. At such times more than at others, I try to 
discover the Lord Jesus in such a person and for this same Jesus, I do everything for 



198 




such people. In such acts, love is pure, and such practice of love gives the soul 
endurance and strength. I do not expect anything from creatures, and therefore I am not 
disappointed. I know that a creature is poor of itself, (180) so what can one expect from 
it? God is everything to me; I want to evaluate everything according to God’s ways. 

767 + My communion with the Lord is now purely spiritual. My soul is touched by god and 
wholly absorbs itself in Him, even to the complete forgetfulness of self. Permeated by 
God to its very depths, it drowns in His beauty; it completely dissolves in Him - I am at a 
loss to describe this, because in writing I am making use of the senses; but there, in that 
union, the senses are not active; there is a merging of God and the soul; and the life of 
God to which the soul is admitted is so great that the human tongue cannot express it. 

When the soul returns to its habitual form of life, it then sees that this life is all darkness 
and mist and dreamlike confusion, an infant’s swaddling clothes. In such moments the 
soul only receives from God, for of itself it does nothing; it does not make even the 
slightest effort; all in her is wrought by God. But when the soul returns to its ordinary 
state, it sees that it is not (181) within its power to continue in this union. 

These moments are short, but their effects are lasting. The soul cannot remain long in 
this sate; or else it would be forcibly freed of the bonds of the body forever. Even as it is, 
it is sustained by a miracle of God. God allows the soul to know in a clear way how much 
He loves it, as though it were the only object of His delight. The soul recognizes this 
clearly and without a veil, so to speak. It reaches out for God with all its might, but it feels 
like a baby; it knows that this is not within its power. Therefore, God descends to the 
soul and unites it to Himself in a way that. . . . Here, I must be silent, for I cannot describe 
what the soul experiences. 

768 It is a strange thing that although the soul which experiences this union with God cannot 
find words and expressions to describe it, nevertheless, when it meets a similar soul, the 
two understand each other extraordinarily well in regard to these matters, even though 
they speak but little with each other. A soul united with God in this way easily recognizes 
a similar soul, even if (182) the latter has not revealed its interior [life] to it, but merely 
speaks in an ordinary way. It is a kind of spiritual kinship. Souls united with God in this 
way are few, fewer than we think. 

769 I have noticed that the Lord grants this grace to souls for two purposes. The first is when 
the soul is to do some great work which is, humanly speaking, absolutely beyond its 
power. In the second case, I have noticed that the Lord grants it in order that kindred 
souls might be guided and set at peace, although the Lord can grant this grace as He 
pleases and to whomever He pleases. However, I have noticed this grace in three 
priests, one of whom is a secular priest [probably Father Sopocko] and the other two, 
religious priests [probably Father Elter and Father Andrasz], and also in two religious 
sisters [probably Mother Michael and Sister Mary Joseph], but not in the same degree. 

770 As for myself, I received this grace for the first time, and that for only a brief moment, in 
the eighteenth 149 year of my life, within the octave of Corpus Christi [June 18-25, 1925], 
during Vespers, when I made to the Lord Jesus the vow of perpetual chastity. (183) I 
was still living in the world, but I entered the convent soon afterwards. The grace lasted 
for a very brief moment, but its power was great. After this grace, there was a long 
interval. It is true that I received many graces from the Lord during this interval, but they 



199 




were of a different order. It was a time of trials and purification. The trials were so 
painful that my soul felt as though it was being totally abandoned by God and it was 
steeped in profound darkness. I became aware and understood that no one would be 
able to bring me out of those torments or even understand me. 

There were two occasions when my soul was plunged into despair, once for half an hour, 
and the second time for three quarters of an hour. Just as I cannot describe the 
greatness of the graces, so too with these ordeals sent by the Lord; whatever words I 
might use, they are only a pale shadow [of the reality]. However, just as the Lord 
plunged me into these torments, so too He brought me out of them. Only this lasted for a 
few years, after which I again received this extraordinary grace of union (184) which has 
continued to this day. Still, during this second period of union, there also have been 
short interruptions. But for some time now, I have not experienced any interruption at all; 
on the contrary, I am more and more deeply steeped in God. The great light which 
illumines the mind gives me a knowledge of the greatness of God; but it is not as if I were 
getting to know the individual attributes, as before - no, it is different now: in one 
moment, I come to know the entire essence of God. 

771 In that same moment, the soul drowns entirely in Him and experiences a happiness as 
great as that of the chosen ones in heaven. Although the chosen ones in heaven see 
God face to face and are completely and absolutely happy, still their knowledge of God is 
not the same. God has given me to understand this. This deeper knowledge begins 
here on earth, depending on the grace [given], but to a great extent it also depends on 
our faithfulness to that grace. 

However, the soul receiving this unprecedented grace of union with God cannot say that 
it sees God face to face, because even here there is a very thin veil of faith, but so very 

( 185 ) thin that the soul can say that it sees God and talks with Him. It is “divinized.” God 
allows the soul to know how much He loves it, and the soul sees that better and holier 
souls than itself have not received this grace. Therefore, it is filled with holy amazement, 
which maintains it in deep humility, and it steeps itself in its own nothingness and holy 
astonishment; and the more it humbles itself, the more closely God united Himself with it 
and descends to it. 

The soul, at this moment is, as it were, hidden; its senses are inactive; in one moment, it 
knows God and drowns in Him. It knows the whole depth of the Unfathomable One, and 
the deeper this knowledge, the more ardently the soul desires Him. 

772 Great is the mutual exchange between the soul and god. When the soul leaves its 
concealment, the senses get a taste of what the soul has delighted in. Although this also 
is a great grace from God, it is not a purely spiritual one, for in the first moments the 
senses do not take part. Every grace gives the soul power and strength to act, and 
courage to suffer. The soul knows very well that God is asking of it, and it carries out 

( 186 ) His holy will despite adversities. 

773 Yet, the soul cannot proceed on its own in these matters. It must follow the advice of an 
enlightened confessor, for otherwise it could go astray or gain no profit. 



200 




774 + O my Jesus, I understand well that, just as illness is measured with a thermometer, and 
a high fever tells us of the seriousness of the illness, so also, in the spiritual life, suffering 
is the thermometer which measures the love of God in a soul. 

775 + My goal is God.... and my happiness is in accomplishing His will, and nothing in the 
world can disturb this happiness for me: no power, no force of any kind. 

776 The Lord visited my cell today and said to me, My daughter, I will not leave you in this 
community for much longer. I am telling you this so that you will be more diligent 
in taking advantage of the graces which I grant you. 

777 ( 187 ) November 27, [1936]. Today I was in heaven, in spirit, and I saw its inconceivable 
beauties and the happiness that awaits us after death. I saw how all creatures give 
ceaseless praise and glory to God. I saw how great is happiness in god, which spreads 
to all creatures, making them happy; and then all the glory and praise which springs from 
this happiness returns to its source; and they enter into the depths of God, contemplating 
the inner life of God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, whom they will never 
comprehend or fathom. 

This source of happiness is unchanging in its essence, but it is always new, gushing forth 
happiness for all creatures. Now I understand Saint Paul, who said, “Eye has not seen, 
nor has ear heard, nor has it entered into the heart of man what God has prepared for 
those who love Him.” 

778 And God has given me to understand that there is but one thing that is of infinite value in 
His eyes, and that is love of God; love, love and once again, love; and nothing can 
compare with a single act of pure ( 188 ) love of God. Oh, with what inconceivable favors 
God gifts a soul that loves Him sincerely! Oh, how happy is the soul who already here on 
earth enjoys His special favors! And of such are the little and humble souls. 

779 The sight of this great majesty of God, which I came to understand more profoundly and 
which is worshiped by the heavenly spirits according to their degree of grace and the 
hierarchies into which they are divided, did not cause my soul to be stricken with terror or 
fear; no, no, not at all! My soul was filled with peace and love, and the more I come to 
know the greatness of God, the more joyful I become that He is as He is. And I rejoice 
immensely in His greatness and am delighted that I am so little because, since I am little 
He carries me in His arms and holds me close to His Heart. 

780 O my God, how I pity those people who do not believe in eternal life; how I pray for them 
that a ray of mercy would envelop them too, and that God would clasp them to His 
fatherly bosom. 

781 O Love, O queen! Love knows no ( 189 ) fear, It passes through all the choirs of angels 
that stand on guard before his throne. It will fear no one. It reaches God and is 
immersed in Him as in its sole treasure. The Cherubim who guards paradise with flaming 
sword, has no power over it. O pure love of God, how great and unequaled you are! Oh, 
if souls only knew your power! 



201 




782 + I am very weak today. I cannot even make my meditation in the chapel, but must lie 
down. O my Jesus, I love You, and I want to worship You with my very weakness, 
submitting myself entirely to Your holy will. 

783 + I must be on my guard, especially today, because I am becoming over-sensitive to 
everything. Things I would not pay any attention to when I am healthy bother me today. 

O my Jesus, my shield and my strength, grant me Your grace that I may emerge 
victorious from these combats. O my Jesus, transform me into Yourself by the power of 
Your love, that I may be a worthy tool in proclaiming Your mercy. 

784 ( 190 ) + I thank God for this illness and these physical discomforts, because I have time to 
converse with the Lord Jesus. It is my delight to spend long hours at the feet of the 
hidden God, and the hours pass like minutes as I lose track of time. I feel that a fire is 
burning within me, and I understand no other life but that of sacrifice, which flows from 
pure love. 

785 November 29, [1 936]. The Mother of God has taught me how to prepare for the Feast of 
Christmas. I saw Her today, without the Infant Jesus. She said to me: My daughter, 
strive after silence and humility, so that Jesus, who dwells in your heart continuously, 
may be able to rest. Adore Him in your heart; do not go out from your inmost being. My 
daughter, I shall obtain for you the grace of an interior life which will be such that, without 
ever leaving that interior life, you will be able to carry out all your external duties with 
even greater care. Dwell with Him continuously in your heart. He will be your strength. 
Communicate with creatures only in so far as is necessary (1 91 ) and is required by your 
duties. You are a dwelling place pleasing to the living God; in you He dwells 
continuously with love and delight. And the living presence of God, which you 
experience in a more vivid and distinct way, will confirm you, my daughter, in the things I 
have told you. Try to act in this way until Christmas Day, and then He Himself will make 
known to you in what way you will be communing and uniting yourself with Him. 

786 November 30, [1936]. During Vespers today, an unusual pain pierced my soul. I see 
that, in every respect, this work is beyond my strength. I am a little child before the 
immensity of the task, and it is only at the Lord’s clear command that I am setting about 
to carry it out. On the other hand, even these great graces are a burden for me, and I am 
barely able to carry them. I see my superiors’ disbelief and doubts of all kinds and, for 
this reason, their apprehensive behavior toward me. My Jesus, I see that even such 
great graces can be [a source of] suffering. And yet, it is so; ( 192 ) not only may they be 

a cause of suffering, but they must be such, as a sign of God’s action. I understand well 
that if God Himself did not strengthen the soul in these various ordeals, the soul would 
not be able to master the situation. Thus God Himself is its shield. 

As I continued Vespers, meditating on this mixture of suffering and grace, I heard the 
voice of Our Lady: Know, My daughter, that although I was raised to the dignity of 
Mother of God, seven swords of pain pierced My heart. Don’t do anything to defend 
yourself; bear everything with humility; God Himself will defend you. 

December 1 , [1 936]. One-day retreat. 

787 Today, during the morning meditation, the Lord gave me to see and understand clearly 
that His demands are unchangeable. I see clearly that no one can release me from the 



202 




duty of doing the known will of God. A great lack of health and physical strength is not a 
sufficient reason and does not release me (193) from this work that the Lord Himself is 
carrying out through me. I am to be just a tool in His hands. And so, O Lord, here I am 
to carry out Your will. Command me according to Your eternal plans and desires. Only 
give me the grace that I may always be faithful to You. 

788 As I was conversing with the hidden God, He gave me to see and understand that I 
should not be reflecting so much and building up fear of the difficulties which I might 
encounter. Know that I am with you; I bring about the difficulties, and I overcome 
them; in one instant, I can change a hostile disposition to one which is favorable to 
this cause. The Lord explained many things to me in today’s dialogue, although I am 
not putting everything in writing. 

789 Always and in all circumstances, yield the first place to others; especially during 
recreation listen quietly, without interrupting, even if someone tells me the same thing ten 
times. I will never ask questions about something that interests me very much. 

790 (194) Resolution: still the same; namely, to unite myself with the Merciful Christ. 

General resolution: interior calm, silence. 

791 Hide me, Jesus, in the depths of Your mercy, and then let my neighbor judge me as he 
pleases. 

792 I must never speak of my own experiences. In suffering, I must seek relief in prayer. In 
doubts, even the smallest, I must seek only the advice of my confessor. I must always 
have a heart which is open to receive the sufferings of others, and drown my own 
sufferings in the Divine Heart so that they would not be noticed on the outside, in so far 
as possible. 

I must always strive for equanimity, no matter how stormy the circumstances might be. I 
must not allow anything to disturb my interior calm and silence. Nothing can compare 
with peace of soul. When I am wrongfully accused of something, I will not explain myself; 
if the superior wants to know (195) the truth, whether I was in the right or not, let her find 
out from others rather than from me. My concern is to accept everything with a humble 
inner disposition. 

I will spend this Advent in accordance with the directions of the Mother of God: in 
meekness and humility. 

793 I am reliving these moments with Our Lady. With great longing, I am waiting for the 
Lord’s coming. Great are my desires. I desire that all humankind come to know the 
Lord. I would like to prepare all nations for the coming of the Word Incarnate. O Jesus, 
make the fount of Your mercy gush forth more abundantly, for humankind is seriously ill 
and thus has more need than ever of Your compassion. You are a bottomless sea of 
mercy for us sinners; and the greater the misery, the more right we have to Your mercy. 
You are a fount which makes all creatures happy by Your infinite mercy. 

794 (196) Today [December 9, 1936], I am leaving for Pradnik, just outside Cracow, to 
undergo treatment. I am to stay there for three months. I am being sent there through 



203 




the great solicitude of my superiors, especially that of our dear Mother General [Michael], 
who is so solicitous for the sisters who are ill. 

795 I have accepted the favor of this treatment, but I am fully resigned to the will of god. Let 

God do with me as He pleases. I desire nothing but the fulfillment of his holy will. I am 
uniting myself with the Mother of God, and I am leaving Nazareth and going to 
Bethlehem. I will spend Christmas there among strangers, yet with Jesus, Mary and 
Joseph, because such is the will of God. I am striving to do the will of God in all things. I 
do not desire a return to health more than death. I entrust myself completely to His 
infinite mercy and, as a little child, I am living in the greatest peace. I am trying only to 
make my love for Him deeper and purer, to be a delight to His divine glance 

796 (197) The Lord told me to say this chaplet for nine days before the Feast of Mercy. It is 
to begin on Good Friday. By this novena, I will grant every possible grace to souls. 

797 When I was somewhat overcome by the fear that I was to be outside the community for 
so long a time alone, Jesus said to me, You will not be alone, because I am with you 
always and everywhere. Near to My Heart, fear nothing. I Myself am the cause of 
your departure. Know that My eyes follow every move of your heart with great 
attention. I am bringing you into seclusion so that I Myself may form your heart 
according to My future plans. What are you afraid of? If you are with Me, who will 
dare touch you? Nevertheless, I am very pleased that you confide your fears to 
Me, My daughter. Speak to Me about everything in a completely simple and human 
way; by this you will give Me great joy. I understand you because I am God-Man. 
(198) This simple language of your heart is more pleasing to Me than the hymns 
composed in My honor. Know, My daughter, that the simpler your speech is, the 
more you attract Me to yourself. And now, be at peace close to My Heart. Lay your 
pen aside and get ready to leave. 

798 December 9, 1936. This morning, I left for Pradnik. Sister Chrysostom drove me here. I 
have a private room to myself; I am very much like a Carmelite. When Sister 
Chrysostom had left and I was alone, I steeped myself in prayer, entrusting myself to the 
special protection of the Mother of God. She alone is always with me. She, like a good 
Mother, watches over all my trials and efforts. 

799 Suddenly, I saw the Lord Jesus, who said to me, Be at peace, My child. See, you are 
not alone. My Heart watches over you. Jesus filled me with strength concerning a 
certain person. I feel strength within my soul. 

(199) A moral principle. 

800 If one does not know what is better, one must reflect, consider and seek advice, because 
one must not act with an uncertain conscience. When uncertain, say to yourself: 
“Whatever I do will be good. I have the intention of doing good.” The Lord God accepts 
what we consider good, and the Lord God also accepts and considers it as good. One 
should not worry if, after some time, one sees that these things are not good. God looks 
at the intention with which we begin, and will reward us accordingly. This is a principle 
which we ought to follow. 



204 




801 Today, I still managed to pay a short visit to the Lord [in the Eucharist] before going to 
bed. My spirit was immersed in Him as in its only treasure. My heart rested a while near 
the Heart of my Spouse. I received light as to how I should behave toward those around 
me, and then I returned to my solitude. The doctor is taking good care of me; all those 
around me are very kind to me. 

802 (200) December 10 , [ 1936 ]. I got up earlier today and made my meditation before Holy 
Mass. Holy Mass is at six o’clock here. After Holy Communion my spirit was drowned in 
the Lord as in the sole object of its love. I felt absorbed by His omnipotence. When I 
came back to my private room, I felt sick and had to lie down at once. The sister 150 
brought me some medication, but I felt bad all day. In the evening, I tried to make a Holy 
Hour, but I could not do so; all I could do was united myself with the suffering Jesus. 

803 My room is next to the men’s ward. I didn’t know that men were such chatterboxes. 
From morning till late at night, there is talk about various subjects. The women’s ward is 
much quieter. It is women who are always blamed for this; but I have had occasion to be 
convinced that the opposite is true. It is very difficult for me to concentrate on my prayer 
in the midst of these jokes and this laughter. They do not disturb me when the grace of 
God takes complete possession of me. (201) because then I do not know what is going 
on around me. 

804 My Jesus, how little these people talk about You. They talk about everything but You, 
Jesus. And if they talk so little [about You], it is quite probable that they do not think 
about You at all. The whole world interests them; but about You, their Creator, there is 
silence. Jesus, I am sad to see this great indifference and ingratitude of creatures. O my 
Jesus, I want to love You for them and to make atonement to You, by my love. 

Immaculate Conception of the Mother of God. 

805 From early morning, I felt the nearness of the Blessed Mother. During Holy Mass, I saw 
Her, so lovely and so beautiful that I have no words to express even a small part of this 
beauty. She was all [in] white, with a blue sash around Her waist. Her cloak was also 
blue, and there was a crown on Her head. Marvelous light streamed forth from Her 
whole figure. I am the Queen of heaven and earth, but especially the Mother of your 
[Congregation]. She pressed me to Her heart and said, / feel constant compassion for 
you. I felt (202) the force of Her Immaculate Heart which was communicated to my soul. 
Now I understand why I have been preparing for this feast for two months and have been 
looking forward to it with such yearning. From today onwards, I am going to strive for the 
greatest purity of soul, that the rays of God’s grace may be reflected in all their brilliance. 

I long to be a crystal in order to find favor in His eyes. 

806 + That same day, I saw a certain priest [probably Father Sopocko or Father Andrasz] 
who was surrounded by the splendor which flowed from her; evidently, this soul loves the 
Immaculate One. 

807 An extraordinary yearning fills my soul. I am surprised that it does not separate the soul 
from the body. I desire God; I want to become immersed in Him. I understand that I am 
in a terrible exile; my soul aspires for God with all its might. O you inhabitants of my 
fatherland, be mindful of this exile! When will the veils be lifted for me as well? Although 



205 




I see (203) and fee! to a certain extent how very thin is the veil separating me from the 
Lord, I long to see Him face to face; but let everything be done according to Your will. 

808 December 11. I could not assist at the whole Mass today; I assisted at only the most 
important parts, and after receiving Holy Communion I immediately returned to my 
solitude. The presence of God suddenly enveloped me, and at the same moment I felt 
the Passion of the Lord, for a very short while. During that moment, I attained a more 
profound knowledge of the work of mercy. 

809 During the night, I was suddenly awakened and knew that some soul was asking me for 
prayer, and that it was in much need of prayer. Briefly, but with all my soul, I asked the 
Lord for grace for her. 

810 The following afternoon, when I entered the ward, I saw someone dying, and learned that 
the agony had started during the night. When I verified it - it had been at the time when 
(204) I had been asked for prayer. And just then, I heard a voice in my soul: Say the 
chaplet which I taught you. I ran to fetch my rosary and knelt down by the dying 
person and, with all the ardor of my soul, I began to say the chaplet. Suddenly the dying 
person opened her eyes and looked at me; I had not managed to finish the entire chaplet 
when she died, with extraordinary peace. I fervently asked the Lord to fulfill the promise 
He had given me for the recitation of the chaplet. The Lord gave me to know that the 
soul had been granted the grace. He had promised me. That was the first soul to 
receive the benefit of the Lord’s promise. I could feel the power of mercy envelop that 
soul. 

81 1 When I entered my solitude, I heard these words: At the hour of their death, I defend 
as My own glory every soul that will say this chaplet; or when others say it for a 
dying person, the indulgence is the same. When (205) this chaplet is said by the 
bedside of a dying person, God’s anger is placated, unfathomable mercy envelops 
the soul, and the very depths of My tender mercy are moved for the sake of the 
sorrowful Passion of My Son. 

Oh, if only everyone realized how great the Lord’s mercy is and how much we all need 
that mercy, especially at that crucial hour! 

812 + Today I have fought a battle with the spirits of darkness over one soul. How terribly 
Satan hates God’s mercy! I see how he opposes this whole work. 

813 +0 merciful Jesus, stretched on the cross, be mindful of the hour of our death. O 
most merciful Heart of Jesus, opened with a lance, shelter me at the last moment of 
my life. O Blood and Water, which gushed forth from the Heart of Jesus as a fount of 
unfathomable mercy for me at the hour of my death, O dying Jesus, Hostage of 
mercy, avert the Divine wrath at the hour of my death. 

814 (206) + December 12, [1936]. Today, I only received Holy Communion and stayed for 
a few moments of the Mass. All my strength is in You, O Living Bread. It would be 
difficult for me to live through the day if I did not receive Holy Communion. It is my 
shield; without You, Jesus, I know not how to live. 



206 




815 Jesus, my Love, today gave me to understand how much He loves me, although there 
is such an enormous gap between us, the Creator and the creature; and yet, in a way, 
there is something like equality: loves fills up the gap. He Himself descends to me 
and makes me capable of communing with Him. I immerse myself in Him, losing 
myself as it were; and yet, under His loving gaze, my soul gains strength and power 
and an awareness that it loves and is especially loved. It knows that the Mighty One 
protects it. Such prayer, though short, benefits the soul greatly, and whole hours of 
ordinary prayer do not give the soul that light which is given by a brief moment of this 
higher form of prayer. 

816 (207) + This afternoon, I had my first open-air rest [on the sunny veranda at the 
sanatorium]. Sister Felicia 151 visited me today and brought a few necessary things 
and some lovely apples and words of greeting from our beloved Mother Superior and 
dear sisters. 

December 13, [1936]. Confession before Jesus. 

817 When I reflected that I had not been to confession for more than three weeks, I wept 
seeing the sinfulness of my soul and certain difficulties. I had not gone to confession 
because the circumstances made it impossible. On the day of confessions, I had 
been confined to bed. The following week, confessions were in the afternoon, and I 
had left for the hospital that morning. This afternoon, Father Andrasz came into my 
room and sat down to hear my confession. Beforehand, we did not exchange a single 
word. I was delighted because I was extremely anxious to go to confession. As 
usual, I unveiled my whole soul. Father gave a reply to each little detail. I felt 
unusually happy to be able (208) to say everything as I did. For penance, he gave me 
the Litany of the Holy Name of Jesus. When I wanted to tell him of the difficulty I have 
in saying this litany, he rose and began to give me absolution. Suddenly his figure 
became diffused with a great light, and I saw that it was not Father A., but Jesus. His 
garments were bright as snow, and He disappeared immediately. At first, I was a little 
uneasy, but after a while a kind of peace entered my soul; and I took note of the fact 
that Jesus heard the confession in the same way that confessors do; and yet 
something was wondrously transpiring in my heart during this confession; I couldn’t at 
first understand what it signified. 

818 December 16, [1936]. I have offered this day for Russia. I have offered all my 
sufferings and prayers for that poor country. After Holy Communion, Jesus said to 
me, I cannot suffer that country any longer. Do not tie my hands, My daughter. 
(209) I understood that if it had not been for the prayers of souls that are pleasing to 
God, that whole nation would have already been reduced to nothingness. Oh, how I 
suffer for that nation which has banished God from its borders! 

819 +0 inexhaustible spring of Divine Mercy, pour yourself out upon us! Your goodness 
knows no limits. Confirm, O Lord, the power of Your mercy over the abyss of my 
misery, for You have no limit to Your mercies. Wonderful and matchless is Your 
mercy, astonishing the human and angelic mind. 

820 My Guardian Angel told me to pray for a certain soul, and in the morning I learned that 
it was a man whose agony had begun that very moment. The Lord Jesus makes it 
known to me in a special way when someone is in need of my prayer. I especially 



207 




know when my prayer is needed by a dying soul. This happens more often now than 
it did in the past. 

821 ( 210 ) The Lord Jesus gave me to know how very pleasing to Him is a soul who lives in 
accordance with the will of God. It thereby gives very great glory to God.... 

822 I have come to understand today that even if I did not accomplish any of the things the 
Lord is demanding of me, I know that I shall be rewarded as if I had fulfilled 
everything, because He sees the intention with which I begin, and even if He called 
me to Himself today, the work would not suffer at all by that, because He himself is the 
Lord of both the work and the worker. My part is to love Him to folly; all works are 
nothing more than a tiny drop before Him. It is love that has meaning and power and 
merit. He has opened up great horizons in my soul - love compensates for the 
chasms. 

823 December 17, [1936]. I have offered this day for priests. I have suffered more today 
than ever before, both interiorly and exteriorly. I did not know it was possible to suffer 
( 211 ) so much in one day. I tried to make a Holy Hour, in the course of which my spirit 
had a taste of the bitterness of the Garden of Gethsemane. I am fighting alone, 
supported by His arm, against all the difficulties that face me like unassailable walls. 
But I trust in the power of his name and I fear nothing. 

824 In this seclusion, Jesus Himself is my Master. He Himself educates and instructs me. 

I feel that I am the object of His special action. For His inscrutable purposes and 
unfathomable decrees, He united me to Himself in a special way and allows me to 
penetrate His incomprehensible mysteries. There is one mystery which unites me 
with the Lord, of which no one - not even angels - may know. And even if I wanted to 
tell of it, I would not know how to express it. And yet, I live by it and will live by it for 
ever. This mystery distinguishes me from every other soul here on earth or in eternity. 

825 ( 212 ) + O bright and clear day on which all my dreams will be fulfilled; O day so 
eagerly desired, the last day of my life! I look forward with joy to the last stroke the 
Divine Artist will trace on my soul, which will give my soul a unique beauty that will 
distinguish me from the beauty of other souls. O great day, on which divine love will 
be confirmed in me. On that day, for the first time, I shall sing before heaven and 
earth the song of the Lord’s fathomless mercy. This is my work and the mission which 
the Lord has destined for me from the beginning of the world. That the song of my 
soul may be pleasing to the Holy Trinity, do You, O Spirit of God, direct and form my 
soul Yourself. I arm myself with patience and await Your coming, O merciful God, and 
as to the terrible pains and fear of death, at this moment more than at any other time, I 
trust in the abyss of Your ( 213 ) mercy and am reminding You, O merciful Jesus, sweet 
Savior, of all the promises You have made to me. 

826 This morning I had an adventure. My watch had stopped, and I did not know when to 
get up, and I thought of what a misfortune it would be to miss Holy Communion. It 
was still dark, so I had no way of knowing whether it was time to get up. I dressed, 
made my meditation and went to the chapel, but everything was still locked, and 
silence reigned everywhere. I steeped myself in prayer, especially for the sick. I now 
see how much the sick have need of prayer. Finally, the chapel was opened. I found 
it difficult to pray because I was already feeling very exhausted, and immediately after 



208 




Holy Communion I returned to my room. Then I saw the Lord, who said to me, Know, 
My daughter, that the ardor of your heart is pleasing to Me. And just as you 
desire ardently to become united with Me in Holy Communion, so too do I desire 
to give Myself wholly to you; and as a (214) reward for your zeal, rest on My 
Heart. At that moment, my spirit was immersed in His Being, like a drop in a 
bottomless ocean. I drowned myself in Him as in my sole treasure. Thus I came to 
recognize that the Lord allows certain difficulties for His greater glory. 



827 December 18, [1936]. Today I felt bad that a week had gone by and no one had come 
to visit me. 152 When I complained to the Lord, He answered, Isn’t it enough for you 
that I visit you every day? I apologized to the Lord and the hurt vanished. O God, 
my strength, You are sufficient for me. 

828 This evening, I learned that a certain soul was in need of my prayer. I prayed 
fervently, but felt that this was still not enough, so I continued to pray for a longer time. 
On the following day, I learned that the agony of a certain soul had started at just that 
time and had continued until morning. I recognized what struggles it had gone 
through. (215) In a strange way, the Lord Jesus makes known to me that a dying 
soul has need of my prayer. I feel vividly and clearly that spirit who is asking me for 
prayer. I was not aware that souls are so closely united, and often it is my Guardian 
Angel who tells, me. 

829 During Holy Mass, the little Infant Jesus brings joy to my soul. Often, distance does 
not exist - I see a certain priest who brings Him down. I am awaiting Christmas with 
great yearning; I am living in expectation together with the Most Holy Mother. 

830 O Light Eternal who come to this earth, enlighten my mind and strengthen my will that 
I may not give up in times of great affliction. May Your light dissipate all the shadows 
of doubts. May Your omnipotence act through me. I trust in You, O uncreated Light! 
You, O Infant Jesus, are a model for me in accomplishing Your Father’s will, You, who 
said, “Behold, I come to do Your will.” Grant that I also (216) may do God’s will 
faithfully in all things. O Divine Infant, grant me this grace! 

831 O my Jesus, my soul was yearning for the days of trial, but do not leave me alone in 
the darkness of my soul. Rather, do You hold me firmly, close to Yourself. Set a 
guard over my lips, so that the fragrance of my sufferings may be known and pleasing 
to You alone. 

832 O merciful Jesus, how longingly You hurried to the Upper Room to consecrate the 
Host that I am to receive in my life. Jesus, You desired to dwell in my heart. Your 
living Blood unites with mine. Who can understand this close union? My heart 
encloses within itself the Almighty, the Infinite One. O Jesus, continue to grant me 
Your divine life. Let Your pure and noble Blood throb with all its might in my hart. I 
give You my whole (217) being. Transform me into Yourself and make me capable of 
doing Your holy will in all things and of returning Your love. O my sweet Spouse, You 
know that my heart knows no one but You. You have opened up in my heart an 
insatiable depth of love for You. From the very first moment it knew You, my heart 
has loved You and has lost itself in You as its one and only object. May Your pure 



209 




and omnipotent love be the driving force of all my actions,. Who will ever conceive 
and understand the depth of mercy that has gushed forth from Your Heart? 

833 I have experienced how much envy there is, even in religious life. I see that there are 

few truly great souls, ready to trample on everything that is not God. O soul, you will 
find no beauty outside of God. Oh, how fragile is the foundation of those who elevate 
themselves at the expenses of others! What a loss! 

834 ( 218 ) December 19, [1936]. This evening, I felt in my soul that a certain person had 
need of my prayer. Immediately, I began to pray. Suddenly, I realize interiorly and am 
aware of who the spirit is who is asking this of me; I pray until I feel at peace. There is 
great help for the dying in this chaplet. I often pray for an intention that I have learned 
of interiorly. I always pray until I experience in my soul that the prayer has had its 
effect. 

835 Especially now, while I am in this hospital, I experience an inner communion with the 

dying who ask me for prayer when their agony begins. God has given me a wondrous 

contact with the dying! Since this has been happening more frequently, I have been 
able to verify it, even to the exact hour. 

Today I was awakened suddenly at eleven o’clock at night and clearly felt the 
presence near me of some spirit who was asking me for prayer. Some force simply 
compelled me to pray. My vision is purely spiritual, by means of a sudden light ( 219 ) 
that God grants me at that moment. I keep on praying until I feel peace in my soul, 
and not always for an equally long time; because sometimes it happens that with one 
“Hail Mary” I am already at peace, and then I say the De Profundis and pray no longer. 
And sometimes it happens that I pray the entire chaplet and only then feel at peace. I 
have also discovered that if I feel constrained to pray for a longer time; that is to say, I 
experience interior unrest, the soul is undergoing a greater struggle and is going 
through a longer final agony. 

This is how I have verified the exact time: I have a watch, and I look to see what time 
it is. On the following day, when they tell me about that person’s death, I ask them 
about the time, and it exactly corresponds, as does the length of the person’s last 
agony. They say to me, “Such and such a person died today, but she passed away 
quickly and peacefully.” It sometimes happens that the dying person is in the second 
or third building away, yet for the spirit, space does not ( 220 ) exist. It sometimes 
happens that I know about a death occurring several hundred kilometers away. This 
has happened several times with regard to my family and relatives and also sisters in 
religion, and even souls whom I have not known during their lifetime. 

O God of fathomless mercy, who allow me to give relief and help to the dying by my 
unworthy prayer, be blessed as many thousand times as there are stars in the sky and 
drops of water in all the oceans! Let Your mercy resound throughout the orb of the 
earth, and let is rise to the foot of Your throne, giving praise to the greatest of Your 
attributes; that is, Your incomprehensible mercy. O God, this unfathomable mercy 
enthralls anew all the holy souls and all the spirits of heaven. These pure spirits are 
immersed in holy amazement as they glorify this inconceivable mercy of God, which in 
turn arouses even greater admiration in them, and their praise is carried out in a 
perfect manner. O eternal God, how ardently I desire to glorify this greatest of Your 



210 




(221) attributes; namely, Your unfathomable mercy. I see all my littleness, and cannot 
compare myself to the heavenly beings who praise the Lord’s mercy with holy 
admiration. But I, too, have found a way to give perfect glory to the incomprehensible 
mercy of God. 

836 O most sweet Jesus, who have deigned to allow miserable me to gain a knowledge of 
Your unfathomable mercy; O most sweet Jesus, who have graciously demanded that I 
tell the whole world of Your incomprehensible mercy, this day I take into my hands the 
two rays that spring from Your merciful Heart; that is, the Blood and the Water; and I 
scatter them all over the globe so that each soul may receive Your mercy and, having 
received it, may glorify it for endless ages. O most sweet Jesus who, in Your 
incomprehensible kindness, have deigned to unite my wretched heart to Your most 
merciful Heart, it is with Your own Heart that I glorify God, our Father, as no soul has 
ever glorified Him before. 

837 (222) December 21 , [1 936]. The radio is always playing in the afternoon, so I feel the 
loss of silence. All morning long, there is ceaseless talk and noise. My God, I was 
looking forward to being in silence, happy that I should be talking only with the Lord, 
and here it is just the opposite. Yet, nothing disturbs me now, neither the talking nor 
the radio. In a word - nothing. By the grace of God, when I am praying I do not even 
know where I am; I know only that my soul is united with the Lord. And thus I pass my 
days in this hospital. 

838 + I marvel at how many humiliations and sufferings that priest accepts in this whole 
matter. 153 I see this at particular times, and I support him with my unworthy prayers. 
Only God can give one such courage; otherwise one would give up. But I see with joy 
that all these adversities contribute to God’s greater glory. The Lord has few such 
souls. O infinite eternity, you will make manifest the efforts of heroic souls, because 
the earth rewards their efforts with hatred and ingratitude. Such souls do not have 
friends; they are solitary. (223) And in this solitude, they gain strength; they draw 
their strength from God alone. With humility, but also with courage, they stand firmly 
in the face of all the storms that beat upon them. Like high-towering oaks, they are 
unmoved. And in this there is just this one secret: that it’s from God that they draw 
this strength, and everything whatsoever they have need of, they have for themselves 
and for others. They not only carry their own burden, but also know how to take on, 
and are capable of taking on, the burdens of others. They are pillars of light along 
God’s ways; they live in light themselves and shed light upon others. They 
themselves live on the heights, and know how to show the way to lesser ones and 
help them attain those heights. 

839 + My Jesus, You see that I do not know how to write well and, on top of that, I don’t 
even have a good pen. And often it scratches so badly that I must put sentences 
together, letter by letter. And that is not all. I also have the difficulty of keeping secret 
from the sisters the things I write down, and so I often have to shut my notebook every 
few minutes, and listen patiently to someone’s story, (224) and then the time set aside 
for writing is gone. And when I shut the notebook suddenly, the ink smears. I write 
with the permission of my superiors and at the command of my confessor. It is a 
strange thing: sometimes the writing goes quite well, but at other times, I can hardly 
read it myself. 



211 




840 December 23, [1 936]. I am spending this time with the Mother of God and preparing 
myself for the solemn moment of the coming of the Lord Jesus. The Mother of God is 
instructing me in the interior life of the soul with Jesus, especially in Holy Communion. 
It is only in eternity that we shall know the great mystery effected in us by Holy 
Communion. O most precious moments of my life! 

841 O my Creator, I long for You! You understand me, O Lord of mine! All that is on earth 
seems to me like a pale shadow. It is You I long for and desire. Although You do so 
inconceivably much for me, for You yourself visit me in a special way, yet those visits 
do not soothe the wound of the heart, but make me long all the more (225) for You, O 
Lord. Oh, take me to Yourself, Lord, if such is Your will! You know that I am dying, 
and I am dying of longing for You; and yet, I cannot die. Death, where are you? You 
draw me into the abyss of Your divinity, and You veil yourself with darkness. My 
whole being is immersed in You, yet I desire to see You face to face. When will this 
come about for me? 

842 Sister Chrysostom 154 came to visit me today. She brought some lemons and apples 
and a tiny Christmas tree. I was delighted with them. Through Sister Chrysostom, 
Mother Superior asked the doctor [Adam Silberg] to let me come home for Christmas, 
and he readily agreed. I was very happy and burst into tears like a little child. Sister 
Chrysostom was surprised that I looked so had and had changed so much, and she 
told me, “You know, Little Faustina, probably you will die. You must be suffering a 
great deal, Sister.” I answered that I was suffering more that day than on other days, 
but that it was nothing and that, for the salvation of souls, it was not too much. O 
merciful Jesus, give me the souls of sinners! 

843 (226) December 24, [1 936]. During Holy Mass today, I was united in a particular way 
with God and His Immaculate Mother. The humility and love of the Immaculate Virgin 
penetrated my soul. The more I imitate the Mother of God, the more deeply I get to 
know God. Oh, what infinite longing envelops my soul! Jesus, how can You still leave 
me in this exile? I am dying of longing for You. Every touch of my soul by You 
wounds me immensely. Love and suffering go together; yet I would not exchange this 
pain caused by You for any treasure, because it is the pain of incomprehensible 
delights, and these wounds of the soul are inflected by a loving hand. 

844 Sister C. 155 came in the afternoon and took me home for the holydays. I was happy to 
be reunited with the community. As we were riding through the city [Cracow], I 
imagined it was the town of Bethlehem. As I watched all those people hurrying about, 

I thought: who is meditating today, in recollection and silence, on this inconceivable 
mystery? O pure Virgin, You are traveling today, and so am I. I feel that (227) today’s 
journey has its symbolism. O radiant Virgin, pure as crystal, all immersed in God, I 
offer You my spiritual life; arrange everything that it may be pleasing to Your Son. O 
my Mother, how ardently I desire that You give me the Infant Jesus during the 
Midnight Mass. And I felt such a living presence of God in the depths of my soul, that 
it was only be sheer will-power that I restrained my joy in order not to show outwardly 
what was going on in my soul. 

845 Before the vigil supper, I entered the chapel for a moment to break the wafer spiritually 
with those dear to my heart. I presented them all, by name, to Jesus and begged for 
graces on their behalf. But that wasn’t all. I commended to the Lord all those who are 



212 




being persecuted, those who are suffering, those who do not know His Name, and 
especially poor sinners. O little Jesus, I fervently ask You, enclose them all in the 
ocean of Your incomprehensible mercy. O sweet little Jesus, here is my heart; let it 
be a little cozy dwelling place for Yourself. O Infinite Majesty, with what sweetness 
You drew close to us. (228) Here, there is no dread of the thunderbolts of the great 
Jehovah; here, there is the sweet little Jesus. Here, no soul is afraid, although Your 
majesty has not lessened, but only concealed itself. After supper, I felt very tired and 
was in pain. I had to lie down. But I kept vigil with the Most Holy Mother, awaiting the 
arrival of the little Child. 

846 December 25, [1936], Midnight Mass. During Mass, God’s presence pierced me 
through and through. A moment before the Elevation I saw the Mother of God and the 
Infant Jesus and the good Old Man [St. Joseph], The Most Holy Mother spoke these 
words to me: My daughter, Faustina, take this most precious Treasure, and she gave 
me the Infant Jesus. When I took Jesus in my arms, my soul felt such unspeakable 
joy that I am unable to describe it. But, strange thing, after a short while Jesus 
became awful, horrible-looking, grown up and suffering; and then the vision vanished, 
and soon it was time to go to Holy Communion. When I received the Lord Jesus in 
Holy Communion, my soul trembled under the influence of God’s presence. The next 
day, (229) I saw the Divine Infant for a brief moment during the Elevation. 

847 On the second day of the Feast, Father Andrasz came to celebrate Mass for us, and 
during Mass I again saw the little Jesus. In the afternoon, I went to confession. 

Father did not give an answer to some of my questions that concerned this work. He 
said, “When you recover, we shall talk about it in concrete terms; and now, try to 
recover completely. As for the rest, you know what guidance to follow and what 
direction to take in these matters.” As penance, Father told me to say the chaplet that 
Jesus had taught me. 

848 While I was saying the chaplet, I heard a voice which said, Oh, what great graces I 
will grant to souls who say this chaplet; the very depths of My tender mercy are 
stirred for the sake of those who say the chaplet. Write down these words, My 
daughter. Speak to the world about My mercy; let all mankind recognize My 
unfathomable mercy. It is a sign for the end times; after it will come (230) the 
day of justice. While there is still time, let them have recourse to the fount of My 
mercy; let them profit from the Blood and Water which gushed forth for them. 

O human souls, where are you going to hide on the day of God’s anger: Take refuge now 
in the fount of God’s mercy. O what a great multitude of souls I see! They worshiped the 
Divine Mercy and will be singing the hymn of praise for all eternity. 

849 December 27. Today, I returned to my place of solitude [her private room at the 
sanatorium], I had a pleasant trip as I traveled with a certain person 156 who was 
taking her baby to be baptized. We gave her a lift as far as the Church in 
Podgorze. 157 In order to get out, she put the baby in my arms. When I took it, I 
offered it, with an ardent prayer, to God so that some day it might give Him special 
glory. I felt in my soul that the Lord was looking in a special way on that little soul. 
When we arrived at Pradnik, Sister N. 158 helped me to carry my bundle. When we 

entered my room, we saw a beautiful paper angel with the inscription, “Gloria in ” I 

think it is from (231) the sick sister to whom I sent the Christmas tree. 159 



213 




850 And so, the holydays are over. Nothing can still the yearning of my soul. I long for 
You, O my Creator and Eternal God! Neither celebrations nor beautiful hymns soothe 
my soul; rather, they make me yearn all the more. At the very mention of Your Name, 
my spirit springs towards You, O Lord. 

851 December 28 , [1936]. Today I have started a novena to The Divine Mercy. That is, I 

place myself in spirit before the image and recite the chaplet which the Lord has 
taught me. On the second day of the novena, I saw the image, as it were, come alive, 
adorned with numberless votive lamps, and I saw great crowds of people coming 
there, and many of them were filled with happiness. O Jesus, with what great joy did 
my heart beat! I am making the novena for the intention of two people; namely, the 
Archbishop [Jalbrzykowski] and Father Sopocko. I am earnestly asking the Lord to 
inspire the Archbishop to approve the chaplet, which is so pleasing to God, and also 
the image, and that he may not put off or delay this work 

852 (232) Today the Lord’s gaze shot through me suddenly, like lightning. At once, I came 
to know the tiniest specks in my soul, and knowing the depths of my misery, I fell to 
my knees and begged the Lord’s pardon, and with great trust I immersed myself in His 
infinite mercy. Such knowledge does not depress me nor keep me away from the 
Lord, but rather it arouses in my soul greater love and boundless trust. The 
repentance of my heart is linked to love. These extraordinary flashes from the Lord 
educate my soul. O sweet rays of God, enlighten me to the most secret depth, for I 
want to arrive at the greatest possible purity of heart and soul. 

853 In the evening, a great longing took possession of my soul. I took the pamphlet with 
the Image of the Merciful Jesus on it and pressed it to my heart, and the following 
words burst forth from my soul: “Jesus, Eternal Love, I live for You, I die for You, and I 
want to become united with You.” Suddenly, I saw the Lord in His inexpressible 
beauty. He looked at me graciously and said, (233) My daughter, I too came down 
from heaven out of love for you; I lived for you, I died for you, and I created the 
heavens for you. And Jesus pressed me to His Heart and said to me, Very soon 
now; be at peace, My daughter. When I was alone, my soul was set afire with the 
desire to suffer until the moment when the Lord would say, “Enough.” And even if I 
were to live for thousands of years, I see in the light of God that that is but one 
moment. Souls. ...[unfinished thought], 

854 December 29, [1 936]. Today after Holy Communion, I heard a voice in my soul: My 
daughter, stand ready, for I will come unexpectedly. Jesus, You do not want to tell 
me the hour I am looking forward to with such longing? My daughter, it is for your 
own good. You will learn it, but not now; keep watch. O Jesus, do with me as 
You please. I know You are the merciful Savior and You will not change towards me 
at the hour of my death. If at this time, you are showing me so much special love, and 
are condescending to unite Yourself with me in such an intimate way and with such 
great kindness, I expect even (234) more at the hour of my death. You, my Lord-God, 
cannot change. You are always the same. Heaven can change, as well as everything 
that is created; but You, Lord, are ever the same and will endure forever. So come as 
You like and when You like. Father of infinite mercy, I, Your child, wait longingly for 
Your coming. O Jesus, You said in the Holy Gospel, “Out of your mouth do I judge 



214 




you.” Well, Jesus, I am always speaking of Your inconceivable mercy, so I trust that 
You will judge me according to Your unfathomable mercy. 

855 December 30, 1936. The year is coming to an end. I took today as the day of the 
monthly retreat. My spirit engrossed itself in the benefits that God has lavished on me 
throughout this whole year. My soul trembled at the sight of this immensity of God’s 
graces. From my soul there burst forth a hymn of thanksgiving to the Lord. For a 
whole hour, I remained steeped in adoration and thanksgiving, contemplating, one by 
one, the benefits I had received from God and also my own minor shortcomings. 

( 235 ) All that this year contained has gone into the abyss of eternity. Nothing is lost. 

I am glad that nothing gets lost. 

December 39, [1936]. One-day retreat 

856 During the morning meditation, I felt an aversion and a repugnance for all created 
things. Everything pales before my eyes; my spirit is detached from all things. I 
desire only God Himself, and yet I must live. This is a martyrdom beyond description. 
God imparts Himself to the soul in a loving way and draws it into the infinite depths of 
his divinity, but at the same time He leaves it here on earth for the sole purpose that it 
might suffer and die of longing for Him. And this strong love is so pure that god 
Himself finds pleasure in it; and self-love has no access to its deeds, for here 
everything is totally saturated with bitterness, and thus is totally pure. Life is a 
continuous dying, painful and terrible, and at the same time it is the depth of true life 
and of inconceivable happiness and the strength of the soul; and because of this, [the 
soul] is capable of great deeds for the sake of God. 

857 ( 236 ) + In the evening, I prayed for a few hours, first for my parents and relatives, for 
Mother General and for the whole Congregation, for our students, and for three priests 
[probably Archbishop Jalbrzykowski, Father Sopocko, and Father Andrasz] to whom I 
owe very much. I ran the length and breadth of the whole world and thanked the 
unfathomable mercy of God for all the graces granted to people, and I begged pardon 
for everything by which they have offended Him. 

858 During Vespers, I saw the Lord Jesus, who looked sweetly and profoundly into my 
soul. My daughter, have patience; it won’t be long now. That profound look and 
those words filled my soul with strength and power, courage and extraordinary trust 
that I would carry out everything He was demanding of me, despite such tremendous 
difficulties, and [filled me with] a special conviction that the Lord is with me and that 
with Him I can do all things. All the powers on earth and in hell are as nothing to me. 
Everything must fall before the power of His Name. I entrust everything into Your 
hands, O my Lord and God. Sole Commander of my soul, direct me according to 
Your eternal desires. 

+ 

859 ( 237 ) J.M.J. Cracow, Pradnik, January 1 , 1937. 

Jesus, I trust in You. 

+ Today, at midnight, I big good-bye to the old year 1936, and welcomed the year 1937. 

It was with fear and trembling that, in this first hour of the year, I faced this new period of 
time. Merciful Jesus, with You I go boldly and courageously into conflicts and battles. In 



215 




your Name, I will accomplish everything and overcome everything. My God, Infinite 
Goodness, I beg of You, let Your infinite mercy accompany me always and in all things. 

As I enter this year, fear of life overwhelms me, but Jesus brings me out of this fear and 
lets me know what great glory this work of mercy will bring Him. 

860 There are times in life when the soul finds comfort only in profound prayer. Would that 
souls knew how to persevere in prayer at such times. This is very important. 

+ 

(238) J.M.J. Jesus, I trust in You. 

+ Resolutions for the year 1 937 , day 1 , month 1 . 

861 Particular examen: remains the same; namely, to unite myself with the Merciful Christ 
(that is; what would Christ do in such and such a case?) and, in spirit, to embrace the 
whole world, especially Russia and Spain. 

General resolutions. 

I. Strict observance of silence - interior silence. 

II. To see the image of God in every sister; all love of neighbor must flow from this 
motive. 

III. To do the will of God faithfully at every moment of my life and to live this. 

IV. To give a faithful account of everything to the spiritual director and not to undertake 
anything of importance without a clear understanding with him. I shall try to clearly 
lay bare to him the most secret depths of my soul, bearing in mind (239) that I am 
dealing with God Himself, and that His representative is just a human being, and 
so I must pray daily that he be given light. 

V. During the evening examination of conscience, I am to ask myself the question: 
What if He were to call me today? 

VI. Not to look for God for away, but within my own being to abide with Him alone. 

VII. In sufferings and torments, to take refuge in the tabernacle and to be silent. 

VIII. To join all sufferings, prayers, works and mortifications to the merits of Jesus in 
order to obtain mercy for the world. 

IX. To use free moments, however short, for prayers for the dying. 

X. There must not be a day in my life when I do not recommend to the Lord the works 

of our Congregation. Never have regard for what others think of you [for human 
respect]. 

XI. Have no familiar relationships with anyone. Gentle firmness toward the girls, 
boundless patience; punish them severely but with such punishments as these: 
prayer and self-sacrifice. The strength that is in the emptying of myself for their 
sake is for (240) them a [source of] constant remorse and the softening of their 
obdurate hearts. 

XII. The presence of God is the basis of all my thoughts, words and deeds. 

XIII. To take advantage of all spiritual help. To always put self-love in its proper place; 

namely, the last. To perform my spiritual exercises as though I were doing them 
for the last time in my life, and in like manner to carry out all my duties. 



216 




862 January 2, [1937], The Name of Jesus. Oh, how great is Your Name, O Lord! It is the 
strength of my soul. When my strength fails, and darkness invades my soul, Your Name 
is the sun whose rays give light and also warmth, and under their influence the soul 
becomes more beautiful and radiant, taking its splendor from Your Name. When I hear 
the sweetest name of Jesus, my heartbeat grows stronger, and there are times when, 
hearing the Name of Jesus, I fall into a swoon. My spirit eagerly strains toward Him. 
(241). 

863 This is a particularly important day for me. On this day I made my first visit connected 
with the painting of the Image. 160 On this day, the Divine Mercy received special external 
honor for the first time, although it has been known for a long time, but here it was in the 
form that the Lord had requested. This day of the sweet Name of Jesus reminds me of 
many special graces. 

864 January 3. The Mother Superior of the Congregation that serves this hospital visited me 
today, together with one of her sisters. 161 For a long while, we talked about spiritual 
matters. I recognized in her great ascetic, and so our conversation was pleasing to God. 

Today a girl came to see me. I saw that she was suffering, but not so much in body as in 
soul. I comforted her as much as I could, but my words of consolation were not enough. 
She was a poor orphan with a soul plunged in bitterness and pain. She opened her soul 
to me and told me everything. I understood (242) that, in this case, simple words of 
consolation would not be enough. I fervently interceded with the Lord for that soul and 
offered Him my joy so that He would give it to her and take all feeling of joy away from 
me. And the Lord heard my prayer: I was left only with the consolation that she had been 
consoled. 

865 Adoration. First Sunday of the month. During adoration, I felt so strongly urged to act 
that I burst into tears and said to the Lord, “Jesus, do not urge me, but give this inspiration 
to those who You know are delaying the work.” And I heard these words: My daughter, 
be at peace; it will not be long now. 

866 During Vespers, I heard these words: My daughter, I want to repose in your heart, 
because many souls have thrown Me out of their hearts today. I have experienced 
sorrow unto death. I tried to comfort the Lord, by offering Him my love a thousand times 
over. I felt, within my soul, a great disgust for sin. 

867 (243) + My heart is steeped in continual bitterness, because I want to go to You, Lord, 
into the fullness of life. O Jesus, what a dreadful wilderness this life seems to me! There 
is on this earth no nourishment for either my heart or my soul. I suffer because of my 
longing for You, O Lord. You have left me the Sacred Host, O Lord, but it enkindles in my 
soul an even greater longing for You, O my Creator and Eternal God! Jesus, I yearn to 
become united with You. Deign to hear the sighs of Your dearly beloved. Oh, how I 
suffer because I am still unable to be united with You. But let it be done according to 
Yours wishes. 

868 January 5, 1937. This evening, I saw a certain priest [probably Father Sopocko] who was 
in need of prayer for a certain matter. I prayed fervently because the matter is very close 
to my heart as well. Thank You, Jesus, for this kindness. 



217 




869 



O Jesus, have mercy! Embrace the whole world and press me to Your Heart.... O Lord, 
let my soul repose in the sea of Your unfathomable mercy. 

870 (244) January 6, 1937. Today during Holy Mass, I was unwittingly absorbed in the 
infinite majesty of God. The whole immensity of God’s love flooded my soul. At that 
particular moment, I became aware of how much God abases Himself for my sake. He, 
the Lord of lords - and what am I, miserable being that I am, that You would commune 
thus with me? The wonder that took hold of me after this special grace continued very 
vividly throughout the entire day. Taking advantage of the intimacy to which the Lord was 
admitting me, I interceded before Him for the whole world. At such moments I have the 
feeling that the whole world is depending on me. 

871 + My Master, cause my heart never to expect help from anyone, but I will always strive to 
bring assistance, consolation and all manner of relief to others. My heart is always open 
to the sufferings of others; and I will not close my heart to the sufferings of others, even 
though because of this I have been scornfully nicknamed “dump”; that is, [because] 
everyone dumps (245) his pain into my heart. [To this] I answered that everyone has a 
place in my heart and I, in return, have a place in the Heart of Jesus. Taunts regarding 
the law of love will not narrow my heart. My soul is always sensitive on this point, and 
Jesus alone is the motive for my love of neighbor. 

872 January 7. During the Holy Hour, the Lord allowed me to taste His Passion. I shared in 

the bitterness of the suffering that filled His soul to overflowing. Jesus gave me to 
understand how a soul should be faithful to prayer despite torments, dryness, and 
temptations; because oftentimes the realization of God’s great plans depends mainly on 
such prayer. If we do not persevere in such prayer, we frustrate what the Lord wanted to 
do through us or within us. Let every soul remember these words: “And being in 

anguish, He prayed longer.” I always prolong such prayer as much as is in my power and 
in conformity with my duty. 

873 (246) January 8. On Friday morning, as I was going to the chapel to attend Holy Mass, I 
suddenly saw a huge juniper tree on the pavement and in it a horrible cat who, looking 
angrily at me, blocked my way to the chapel. One whisper of the name of Jesus 
dissipated all that. I offered the whole day for dying sinners. During Holy Mass, I felt the 
closeness of the Lord in a special way. After Holy Communion, I turned my gaze with 
trust toward the Lord and told him, “Jesus, I so much desire to tell You something.” And 
the Lord looked at me with love and said, And what is it that you desire to tell Me? 

“Jesus, I beg You, by the inconceivable power of Your mercy, that all the souls who will 
die today escape the fire of hell, even if they have been the greatest sinners. Today is 
Friday, the memorial of Your bitter agony on the Cross; because Your mercy is 
inconceivable, the Angels will not be surprised at this.” Jesus pressed me to His Heart 
and said, My beloved (247) daughter, you have come to know well the depths of My 
Mercy. I will do what you ask, but unite yourself continually with My agonizing 
Heart and make reparation to My justice. Know that you have asked Me for a great 
thing, but I see that this was dictated by your pure love for Me; that is why I am 
complying with your requests. 

874 Mary, Immaculate Virgin, take me under Your special protection and guard the purity of 
my soul, heart and body. You are the model and star of my life. 



218 




875 Today, I experienced a great suffering during the visit of our sisters. I learned of 
something that hurt me terribly, but I controlled myself so that the sisters didn’t notice 
anything. For some time, the pain was tearing my heart apart, but all that is for the sake 

of poor sinners O Jesus, for poor sinners Jesus, my strength, stay close to me, 

help me 

876 (248) January 1 0, 1 937. I asked the Lord today to give me strength in the morning so that 
I could go to receive Holy Communion. My Master, I ask You with all my thirsting heart to 
give me, if this is according to Your holy will, any suffering and weakness that You like - I 
want to suffer all day and all night - but please, I fervently beg You, strengthen me for the 
one moment when I am to receive Holy Communion. You see very well, Jesus, that here 
they do not bring Holy Communion to the sick; so, if You do not strengthen me for that 
moment so that I can go down to the chapel, how can I receive You in the Mystery of 
Love? And You know how much my heart longs for You. O my sweet Spouse, what’s the 
good of all these reasonings? You know how ardently I desire You, and if you so choose 
You can do this for me. 

On the following morning, I felt as if I were perfectly well; the faintings and the 
weaknesses ceased. But as soon as I returned from the chapel, all the sufferings and 
weaknesses immediately returned, as if they had been waiting for me. But I had no fear 
of them (249) at all, because I had been nourished by the Bread of the Strong. I boldly 
look at everything; even death itself I look straight in the eye. 

877 + O Jesus concealed in the Host, my sweet Master and faithful Friend, how happy my 
soul is to have such a Friend who always keeps me company. I do not feel lonely even 
though I am in isolation. Jesus-Host, we know each other - that is enough for me. 

878 January 12, 1937. Today, when the doctor [Adam Silberg] making his rounds came to 
see me, he somehow didn’t like the way I looked. Naturally, I was suffering more, and so 
my temperature had gone up considerably. Consequently, he decided I must not go 
down for Holy Communion until my temperature dropped to normal. I said, “All right,” 
although pain seized my heart; but I said I would go only if I had no fever. So he agreed 
to that. When the doctor left, I said to the Lord, “Jesus, now it is up to You whether I shall 
go or not,” and I didn’t think about it anymore, although the thought kept coming to my 
mind: I am not (250) to have Jesus - no, that’s impossible - and not just once but for 
several days, until my temperature drops. But in the evening, I said to the Lord, “Jesus, if 
my Communions are pleasing to You, I beg You humbly, grant that I have not one degree 
of fever tomorrow morning.” 

In the morning, as I was taking my temperature, I thought to myself, “If there is even one 
degree, I will not get up because that would be contrary to obedience.” But when I looked 
at the thermometer, there wasn’t even one degree of fever. I jumped to my feet at once 
and went to Holy Communion. When the doctor came and I told him that I had had not 
even one degree of fever, and so had gone to Holy Communion, he was surprised. I 
begged him not to make it difficult for me to go to Holy Communion, for it would have an 
adverse effect on the treatment. The doctor answered, “For peace of conscience, and at 
the same time to avoid difficulties for yourself, Sister, let us make the following 
agreement: when the weather is fine, and it isn’t raining, and you feel all right, then, 
Sister, please go; but you must weigh these matters in your conscience.” It made me 



219 




very happy that the doctor was being so considerate (251) for my sake. You see, Jesus, 
that I have already done whatever was up to me; now I am counting on You and am quite 
at peace. 

879 I saw Father Andrasz as he was saying Holy Mass today. Before the Elevation, I saw the 
Infant Jesus with His hands spread out, and He was very joyous; then, after a moment, I 
saw nothing more. I was in my room and I continued making my thanksgiving. But later 
on, I thought to myself, “Why was the Infant Jesus so merry: After all, He is not always so 
merry when I see Him.” Then I heard these words interiorly: Because I am very much 
at home in his heart. And I was not at all surprised at this, because I know he loves 
Jesus very much. 

880 My union with the dying is still as close as ever. Oh, how incomprehensible is God’s 
mercy that the Lord allows me, by my unworthy prayer, to come to the aid of the dying. I 
try to be at the side of every dying person whenever I can. Have confidence in God, for 
He is good and inconceivable. His mercy surpasses our understanding. 

881 (252) January 14, 1937. Today, Jesus entered my room wearing a bright robe and 
girded with a golden belt. His whole figure resplendent with great majesty. He said, My 
daughter, why are you giving in to thoughts of fear? I answered, “O Lord, You know 
why.” And He said, Why? “This work frightens me. You know that I am incapable of 
carrying it out.” And He said, Why? “You see very well that I am not in good health, that 
I have no education, that I have no money, that I am an abyss of misery, that I fear 
contacts with people. Jesus, I desire only You. You can release me from this.” And the 
Lord said to me, My daughter, what you have said is true. You are very miserable, 
and it pleased Me to carry out this work of mercy precisely through you who are 
nothing but misery itself. Do not fear; I will not leave you alone. Do whatever you 
can in this matter; I will accomplish everything that is lacking in you. You know 
what is within your power to do; do that. The Lord looked into the depth of my being 
with great kindness; I thought I would die for joy under that gaze. The Lord disappeared, 
and joy, (253) strength and power to act remained in my soul. But I was surprised that 
the Lord did not want to release me and that he is not changing anything. He has once 
said. And despite all these joys, there is always a shadow of sorrow. I see that love and 
sorrow go hand in hand. 

882 I rarely have such visions. But I more often commune with the Lord in a more profound 
manner. My senses sleep and, although not in a visible way, all things become more real 
and clearer to me than if I saw them with my eyes. My intellect learns more in one 
moment than during long years of thinking and meditation, both as regards the essence of 
God and as regards revealed truths, and also as regard the knowledge of my own misery. 

883 Nothing disturbs my union with the Lord, neither conversation with others nor any duties; 
even if I am to go about settling very important matters, this does not disturb me. My 
spirit is with God, and my interior being is filled with God, so I do not look for Him (254) 
outside myself. He, the Lord, penetrates my soul just as a ray from the sun penetrates 
clear glass. When I was enclosed in my mother’s womb, I was not so closely united with 
her as I am with my God. There, it was unawareness; but here, it is the fullness of reality 
and the consciousness of union. My visions are purely interior, but the more I understand 
them, the less I am able to express them in words. 



220 




884 Oh, how beautiful is the world of the spirit! And so real that, by comparison, the exterior 
life is just a vain illusion and powerlessness. 

885 Jesus, give me the strength and wisdom to get through this terrible wilderness, that my 
heart may bear patiently this longing for You, O my Lord! I always remain in holy 
amazement when I sense that You are approaching me, You, the Lord of the awesome 
throne; that You descend to this miserable exile and visit this poor beggar who has 
nothing but misery! I do not know how to entertain You, my Royal Prince, but You know 
that I love You with every beat of my heart. I see how You lower yourself, but 
nevertheless our majesty does not (255) diminish in my eyes. I know that You love me 
with the love of a bridegroom, and that is enough for me. Although we are separated by a 
great chasm, for You are the Creator and I am Your creature, nevertheless, love alone 
explains our union. Without it, all is incomprehensible. Only love makes it possible to 
understand these incomprehensible intimacies with which You visit me. O Jesus, Your 
greatness terrifies me, and I would be in constant astonishment and fear, if You yourself 
did not set me at peace. You make me capable of communing with You before each 
approach. 

886 January 15, 1937. Sorrow will not establish itself in a heart which loves the will of god. 
My heart, longing for God, feels the whole misery of exile. I keep going forward bravely - 
though my feet become wounded - to my homeland and, on the way, I nourish myself on 
the will of God. It is my food. Help me, happy inhabitants of the heavenly homeland, so 
that your sister may not falter on the way. Although the desert is fearful, I walk with lifted 
head and eyes fixed on the sun; that is to say, on the merciful Heart of Jesus. 

887 (256) January 19, 1937. My life at present flows on in peaceful awareness of God. My 
silent soul lives on Him, and this conscious life of God in my soul is for me a source of 
happiness and strength. I do not look for happiness outside the depths of my soul in 
which God dwells; of this I am aware. I feel a certain need to share myself with others. I 
have discovered a fountain of happiness in my soul, and it is God. O my God, I see that 
everything that surrounds me is filled with God, and most of all my own soul, which is 
adorned with the grace of God. Already now, I will begin to live on that on which I shall 
live for all eternity. 

888 Silence is so powerful a language that it reaches the throne of the living God. Silence is 
His language, though secret, yet living and powerful. 

889 Jesus, You have given me to know and understand in what a soul’s greatness consists: 
not in great deeds but in great love. Love has its worth, and it confers greatness on all 
our deeds. Although our actions are small and ordinary in themselves, because of love 
they become great and powerful before God. 

890 (257) Love is a mystery that transforms everything it touches into things beautiful and 
pleasing to God. The love of God makes a soul free. She is like a queen; she knows no 
slavish compulsion; she sets about everything with great freedom of soul, because the 
love which dwells in her incites her to action. Everything that surrounds her makes her 
know that only God Himself is worthy of her love. A soul in love with God and immersed 
in Him approaches her duties with the same dispositions as she does Holy Communion 
and carries out the simplest tasks with great care, under the loving gaze of God. She is 
not troubled if, after some time, something turns out to be less successful. She remains 



221 




calm, because at the time of the action she had done what was in her power. When it 
happens that the living presence of God, which she enjoys almost constantly, leaves her, 
she then tries to continue living in lively faith. Her soul understands that there are periods 
of rest and periods of battle. Through her will, she is always with God. Her soul, like a 
knight, is well trained in battle; from afar it sees where the foe is hiding and is ready (258) 
for battle. She knows she is not alone - God is her strength. 

891 January 21, [1937], Since early morning today, I have been wondrously united with the 
Lord. In the evening, the hospital chaplain visited me. After we had talked for a while, I 
felt my spirit beginning to immerse itself in God, and I began to lose all sense of what was 
happening around me. I ardently implored Jesus, “Give me the ability to talk.” And the 
Lord granted that I could talk freely with him. But there was a moment when I could not 
understand what the priest was saying. I heard his voice, but it was impossible for me to 
understand him, and I apologized for not understanding him although I could hear his 
voice. This is a moment of the grace of union with God, but imperfect, because exteriorly 
the senses are acting imperfectly too. There is no total immersion in God; that is, 
suspension of the senses, as often happens when one neither sees nor hears anything 
exteriorly, the whole soul being freely absorbed in God. When such a grace visits me, I 
want to be alone, and I ask Jesus to (259) protect me from the eyes of creatures. I was 
really very embarrassed before the priest, but I was reassured, because he got to know a 
little of my soul in confession. 

892 Today the Lord gave me to know, in spirit, about the Convent of divine Mercy. I saw a 
great spirit in this convent, but everything was poor and very scanty. O my Jesus, you 
are allowing me to live in spirit with these souls, but perhaps I shall never set foot there; 
but may Your Name be blessed, and whatever You have intended, may it be done. 

893 January 22, [1937], Today is Friday. My soul is in a sea of suffering. Sinners have taken 
everything away from me. But that is all right; I have given everything away for their sake 
that they might know that You are good and infinitely merciful. I shall be faithful to You, 
come rain or shine. 

894 Today the doctor decided that I am not to go to Mass, but only to Holy Communion. I 
wanted very much to assist at Mass, but my confessor, 162 in agreement with the doctor, 
told me to obey. “It is God’s will, Sister, that you should get (260) well, and you must not 
undertake mortifications of any kind. Be obedient, Sister, and God will reward you for it.” 
I felt that the confessor’s words were Jesus’ words, and although it made me sad to miss 
Holy Mass, during which God had been granting me the grace of seeing the Infant Jesus; 
nevertheless, I placed obedience above everything else. 

I became absorbed in prayer and said my penance. Then I suddenly saw the Lord, who 
said to me, My daughter, know that you give Me greater glory by a single act of 
obedience than by long prayers and mortifications. Oh, how good it is to live under 
obedience, to live conscious of the fact that everything I do is pleasing to God! 

895 January 23, [1 937], I did not feel like writing today. Then I heard a voice in my soul: My 

daughter, you do not live for yourself but for souls; write for their benefit. You 
know that My will as to your writing has been (261) confirmed many times by your 
confessors. You know what is pleasing to Me, and if you have any doubts about 
what I am saying, you also know whom you are to ask. I grant him light to 



222 




pronounce judgment on my case. My eye watches over him. My daughter, you are 
to be like a child towards him, full of simplicity and candor. Put his judgment 
above all My demands. He will guide you according to My will. If he doesn’t allow 
you to carry out My demands, be at peace; I will not judge you, but the matter will 
remain between Me and him. You are to be obedient. 

896 January 25, 1 937. Today my soul is steeped in bitterness. O Jesus, O my Jesus, today 
everyone can add to my cup of bitterness. It makes no difference whether they be friend 
or foe, they can all inflict suffering on me. And You, O Jesus, are bound to give me 
strength and power in these difficult moments. O Blessed Host, support me and seal my 
lips against ail murmuring and complaint. When I am silent, I know I shall be victorious. 

897 (262) January 27, 1937. I feel considerable improvement in my health. Jesus is bringing 
me from the gates of death to life, because there was so little left but for me to die, and lo, 
the Lord grants me the fullness of life. Although I am still to remain in the sanatorium, I 
am almost completely well. I see that the will of god has not yet been fulfilled in me, and 
that is why I must live, for I know that if I fulfill everything the Lord has planned for me in 
this world, He will not leave me in exile any longer, for heaven is my home. But before we 
go to our Homeland, we must fulfill the will of God on earth; that is, trials and struggles 
must run their full course in us. 

898 O my Jesus, You are giving me back my health and life; give me also strength for battle, 
because I am unable to do anything without You. Give me strength, for You can do all 
things. You see that I am a frail child, and what can I do: 

I know the full power of Your mercy, and I trust that You will give me everything your 
feeble child needs. 

899 (263) I have desired death so much! I do not know whether I shall ever again in my life 
experience such great longing for God. There have been times when I fell into a swoon 
for Him. Oh, how ugly the earth when one knows heaven! I must do violence to myself in 
order to live. O will of God, you are my nourishment. 

900 Oh, how3 drab and full of misunderstandings is this life! My patience is exercised, and 
after it comes experience. I understand and learn many things each day and see that I 
know very little, and I am constantly discovering faults in my conduct. Still, I am not 
discouraged by this, but thank God that He deigns to grant me His light that I may know 
myself. 

901 + There is a certain person [Stanislava Kwietniewska 163 ] who tests my patience. I must 
devote much time to her. When I talk with her, I feel that she is lying, and this, 
continually. And because she tells me about things far away which I cannot verify, she is 
able to get away with the lie. But I am inwardly convinced that there is no (264) truth in 
what she says. When it occurred to me once that I might be mistaken and that she might 
be telling the truth, I asked the Lord Jesus to give me the following sign: if she is really 
lying, let her admit to me herself that she has lied about any one of the things concerning 
which I am inwardly convinced that she is lying. And if she is telling the truth, let the Lord 
Jesus take this conviction away from me. A little later, she came to me again and said, 
“Sister, I beg your forgiveness, but I have lied about such and such a thing,” and I 
understood that the inner light concerning that person had not misled me. 



223 




902 January 29, 1937. I overslept today. A little longer, and I would have been too late for 
Holy Communion because the chapel is a good distance from our section. 164 When I 
went outdoors, the snow was knee-deep. But before it occurred to me that the doctor 
would not have allowed me to go out in such snow, I had already come (265) to the Lord 
in the chapel. I received Holy Communion and was back in no time. I heard these words 
in my soul: My daughter, rest close to My Heart. Known to Me are your efforts. My 
soul is more joyful when I am close to the Heart of my God. 

January 30, 1937. One-day retreat. 

903 I am coming to know God’s greatness more and more and to rejoice in Him. I remain 
unceasingly with Him in the depths of my heart. It is in my own soul that I most easily find 
God. 

904 During my meditation, I heard these words: My daughter, you give Me most glory by 
patiently submitting to My will, and you win for yourself greater merit than that 
which any fast or mortification could ever gain for you. Know, My daughter, that if 
you submit your will to Mine, you draw upon yourself My special delight. This 
sacrifice is pleasing to Me and full of sweetness. I take great pleasure in it; there is 
power in it. 

905 (266) + Examination of conscience: continuation of the same, to unite myself to the 
Merciful Christ. Practice: interior silence; that is, strict observance of silence. 

906 + In difficult moments, I will fix my gaze upon the silent Heart of Jesus, stretched upon the 
Cross, and from the exploding flames of His merciful Heart, will flow down upon me power 
and strength to keep fighting. 

907 An extraordinary thing, [that] in winter a canary comes to my window and sings beautifully 
for a while. I have tried to check whether there is a canary in a cage somewhere around, 
but there is none anywhere, not even in the neighboring ward. One of the other patients 
also heard it, but only once, and wondered how a canary could be singing in this freezing 
season of the year. 

908 + O Jesus, how sorry I feel for poor sinners. Jesus, grant them contrition and repentance. 
Remember Your own sorrowful Passion. I know Your infinite mercy and cannot bear it 
that a soul that has cost You so much should perish. Jesus, give me the souls (267) of 
sinners; let Your mercy rest upon them. Take everything away from me, but give me 
souls. I want to become a sacrificial host for sinners. Let the shell of my body conceal 
my offering, for Your Most Sacred Heart is also hidden in a Host, and certainly You are a 
living sacrifice. 

Transform me into Yourself, O Jesus, that I may be a living sacrifice and pleasing to You. 
I desire to atone at each moment for poor sinners. The sacrifice of my spirit is hidden 
under the veil of the body; the human eye does not perceive it, and for that reason it is 
pure and pleasing to You. O my Creator and Father of great mercy, I trust in You, for You 
are Goodness Itself. Souls, do not be afraid of God, but trust in Him, for He is good, and 
His mercy is everlasting. 



224 




909 + We know each other mutually, O lord, in the dwelling of my heart. Yes, now it is I who 
am receiving You as a Guest in the little home of my heart, but the time is coming when 
You will call me to Your dwelling place, which You have prepared for me from the 
beginning of the world. Oh, what am I compared to You, O Lord? 

910 (268) The Lord is leading me into a world unknown to me. He makes known to me His 
great grace, but I am afraid of it and will not submit to its influence in so far as it may be in 
my power, until I am assured by my spiritual director as to what thin grace is. 

91 1 On one occasion, God’s presence pervaded my whole being, and my mind was 
mysteriously enlightened in respect to His Essence. He allowed me to understand His 
interior life. In spirit, I saw the Three Divine Persons, but Their Essence was One. He is 
One, and One only, but in Three Persons; none of Them is either greater or smaller; there 
is no difference in either beauty or sanctity, for They are One. They are absolutely One. 
His Love transported me into this knowledge and united me with Himself. When I was 
united to One, I was equally united to the Second and to the Third in such a way that 
when we are united with One, by that very fact, we are equally united to the two Persons 
in the same way as with the One. Their will is One, one God, though in Three Persons. 
When One of the Three Persons communicates with a soul, (269) by the power of that 
one will, it finds itself united with the Three Persons and is inundated in the happiness 
flowing from the Most Holy Trinity, the same happiness that nourishes the saints. This 
same happiness that streams from the Most Holy Trinity makes all creation happy; from it 
springs that life which vivifies and bestows all life which takes its beginning from Him. In 
these moments, my soul experienced such great divine delights that I find this difficult to 
express. 

912 Then I heard the following words spoken thus: I want you to be My spouse. Fear 
pierced my soul, but I calmly continued to reflect on what sort of an espousal this could 
be. However, each time fear would invade my soul, a power from on high would give it 
peace. 

After all, I have taken perpetual vows, and I have taken them of my own completely free 
will. And so I continued to reflect on what this could mean. I sensed, and came to 
realize, that this was some special kind of grace. Whenever I think about it, I feel faint for 
God, but in this swooning, my mind is clear and penetrated with light. When I am united 
(270) to Him, I faint from an abundance of happiness, but my mind is bright and clear and 
free from all shadows. You abase Your majesty to dwell with a poor creature. Thank 
you, O Lord, for this great grace that makes it possible for me to commune with You. 
Jesus, Your Name is my delight, I have a presentiment of my Beloved from afar, and my 
languishing soul rests in His embrace; I don’t know how to live without Him. I would 
rather be with Him in afflictions and suffering than without Him in the greatest heavenly 
delights. 

913 February 2, 1937. Today, from early morning, divine absorption penetrates my soul. 
During Mass, I thought I would see the little Jesus, as I often do; however, today during 
Holy Mass I saw the Crucified Jesus. Jesus was nailed to the cross and was in great 
agony. His suffering pierced me, soul and body, in a manner which was invisible, but 
nevertheless most painful. 



225 




914 Oh, what awesome mysteries take place during Mass! A great mystery is accomplished 
in the Holy Mass. (271) With what great devotion should we listen to and take part in this 
death of Jesus. One day we will know what God is doing for us in each Mass, and what 
sort of gift He is preparing in it for us. Only His divine love could permit that such a gift be 
provided for us. O Jesus, my Jesus, with what great pain is my soul pierced when I see 
this fountain of life gushing forth with such sweetness and power for each soul, while at 
the same time I see souls withering away and drying up through their own fault. O Jesus, 
grant that the power of mercy embrace these souls. 

915 +0 Mary, today a terrible sword has pierced Your holy soul. Except for God, no one 
knows of Yours suffering. Your soul does not break; it is brave, because it is with Jesus. 
Sweet Mother, unite my soul to Jesus, because it is only then that I will be able to endure 
all trials and tribulations, and only in union with Jesus will my little sacrifices be pleasing 
to God. Sweetest Mother, continue to teach me about the interior life. May the sword of 
suffering never break me. O pure Virgin, pour courage into my heart and guard it. 

916 (272) This day is so special for me; even though I encountered so many sufferings, my 
soul is overflowing with great joy. In a private room next to mine, there was a Jewish 
woman who was seriously ill. I went to see her three days ago and was deeply pained at 
the thought that she would soon die without having her soul cleansed by the grace of 
Baptism. I had an understanding with her nurse, a [religious] Sister, that when her last 
moment would be approaching, she would baptize her. There was this difficulty however, 
that there were always some Jewish people with her. However, I felt inspired to pray 
before the image which Jesus had instructed me to have painted. I have a leaflet with the 
Image of the divine Mercy on the cover. And I said to the Lord, “Jesus, You Yourself told 
me that You would grant many graces through this image. I ask You, then, for the grace 
of Holy Baptism for this Jewish lady. It makes no difference who will baptize her, as long 
as she is baptized.” 

After these words, I felt strangely at peace, and I was quite sure that, despite the 
difficulties, the waters of Holy Baptism would be poured upon her soul. That night, (273) 
when she was very low, I got out of bed three times to see her, watching for the right 
moment to give her this grace. The next morning, she seemed to feel a little better. In 
the afternoon her last moment began to approach. The Sister who was her nurse said 
that Baptism would be difficult because they were with her. The moment came when the 
sick woman began to lose consciousness, and as a result, in order to save her, they 
began to run about; some [went] to fetch the doctor, while others went off in other 
directions to find help. 

And so the patient was left alone, and Sister baptized her, and before they had all rushed 
back, her soul was beautiful, adorned with God’s grace. Her final agony began 
immediately, but it did not last long. It was as if she fell asleep. All of a sudden, I saw her 
soul ascending to heaven in wondrous beauty. Oh, how beautiful is a soul with 
sanctifying grace! Joy flooded my heart that before this image I had received so great a 
grace for this soul. 

917 Oh, how great is God’s mercy; let every soul praise it. O my Jesus, that soul for all 
eternity will be singing You a hymn of mercy. (274) I shall not forget the impression this 
day has made on my soul. This is the second great grace which I have received here for 
souls before this image. 



226 




Oh, how good the Lord is, and how full of compassion; Jesus, how heartily I thank You for 
these graces. 

918 February 5, 1937. My Jesus, in spite of everything, I desire very much to unite myself to 
You. Jesus, if this be possible, takes me to Yourself, for it seems to me that my heart will 
burst of longing for You! 

Oh, how very much I feel that I am in exile! When will I find myself in the house of our 
Father, delighting in the happiness that streams from the Most Holy Trinity? But, if it is 
Your will that I still go on living and suffering, then I desire what You have destined for 
me. Keep me here on earth for as long as You wish, even though this be until the end of 
the world. O will of my Lord, be my delight and the rapture of my soul. Although the earth 
is so filled with people, I feel all alone, and the earth is a terrible desert to me. O Jesus, 
Jesus, You know and understand the fervors of my heart; You, O Lord, alone can fill me. 

919 (275) + Today, when I warned a certain young lady that she should not be standing for 
hours in the corridor with the men, because it was unbecoming for a well-bred young lady 
to do so, she apologized and promised to correct herself. She began to cry when she 
became aware of her thoughtlessness. As I was saying these few things to her 
concerning moral behavior, all the men from the ward came over and listened to my 
words of advice. The Jewish people even heard a few things about themselves. A 
certain person told me afterwards that they put their ears against the wall and listened 
attentively. I somehow felt they were listening, but I said what I had to say. The walls are 
so thin here that one can be heard, even when speaking in a low voice. 

920 +There is a woman here 165 who was once one of our students. Naturally, she puts my 
patience to the test. She comes to see me several times a day. After each of these visits 
I am tired out, but I see that the Lord Jesus has sent that soul to me. Let everything 
glorify You, O Lord. Patience gives glory to God. O how poor the souls are! 

921 (276) February 6, [1937], Today, the Lord said to me, My daughter, I am told that there 
is much simplicity in you, so why do you not tell Me about everything that 
concerns you, even the smallest details? Tell Me about everything, and know that 
this will give Me great joy. I answered, “But You know about everything, Lord.” And 
Jesus replied to me, Yes, I do know; but you should not excuse yourself with the fact 
that I know, but with childlike simplicity talk to Me about everything, for My ears 
and heart are inclined towards you, and your words are dear to Me. 

922 + When I began this big novena for three intentions, I saw a tiny insect on the ground and 
thought: how did it get here in the middle of winter: Then I heard the following words in 
my soul: You see, I am thinking of it and sustaining it, and what is it compared to 
you? Why was your soul fearful for a moment? I apologized to the Lord for that 
moment. Jesus wants me to always be a child and to leave all care to Him, and to submit 
blindly to His holy will. He took everything upon Himself. 

923 (277) February 7, [1937], Today, the Lord said to me, I demand of you a perfect and 
whole-burnt offering; and offering of the will. No other sacrifice can compare with 
this one. I Myself am directing your life and arranging things in such a way that 
you will be for Me a continual sacrifice and will always do My will. And for the 



227 




accomplishment of this offering, you will unite yourself with Me on the Cross. I 
know what you can do. I Myself will give you many orders directly, but I will delay 
the possibility of their being carried out and make it depend on others. But what 
the superiors will not manage to do, I Myself will accomplish directly in your soul. 
And in the most hidden depths of your soul, a perfect holocaust will be carried out, 
not just for a while, but know, My daughter, that this offering will last until your 
death. But there is time, so that I the Lord will fulfill all your wishes. I delight in 
you as in a living host; let nothing terrify you; I am with you. 

924 Today, I received a note from Mother Superior forbidding me to go to the bedside of the 
dying. And so, I will send to the dying obedience in place of self, and it will support the 
souls (278) who are dying. Such is God’s will, and that is enough for me. That which I 
cannot understand now I will learn later. 

925 February 7, 1937. Today, I prayed more fervently than ever for the Holy Father [Pius XI] 
and three priests 166 that God would inspire them as to what He is asking of me, for the 
realization of this depends on them. Oh, how happy I am that the Holy Father’s health is 
improving. Today I heard him addressing the Eucharistic Congress, 167 and I went there in 
spirit to receive the Apostolic Blessing. 

926 February 9, [1937], Shrove Tuesday. During the last two days of the carnival, I 
experienced the overwhelming flood of chastisements and sins. In one instant the Lord 
gave me a knowledge of the sins committed throughout the whole world during these 
days. I fainted from fright, and even though I know the depth of God’s mercy, I was 
surprised that God allows humanity to exist. And the Lord gave me to know who it is that 
upholds the existence of mankind: it is the chosen souls. When the number of the 
chosen ones is complete, the world will cease to exist. 

927 On these two days, I received Holy Communion (279) as an act of reparation, and I said 
to the Lord, “Jesus, I offer everything today for sinners. Let the blows of Your justice fall 
on me, and the sea of Your mercy engulfs the poor sinners.” And the Lord hears my 
prayer: many souls returned to the Lord, but I was in agony under the yoke of God’s 
justice. I felt I was the object of the anger of the Most High God. By evening my 
sufferings had reached such a stage of interior desolation that moans welled up 
involuntarily from my breast. I locked the door of my room and began an adoration; that 
is to say, a Holy Hour. Interior desolation and an experience of God’s justice - that was 
my prayer; and the moans and pain that welled up from my soul took the place of a sweet 
conversation with the Lord. 



928 Then suddenly, I saw the Lord, who clasped to me to His Heart and said to me, My 
daughter, do not weep, for I cannot bear your tears. I gill grant you everything you 
ask for, but stop crying. And I was filled with great (280) joy, and my spirit, as usual, 
was drowned in Him as in its only treasure. Today, encouraged by His kindness, I 
conversed with Jesus at greater length. 

929 When I had rested near His sweetest Heart, I told Him, “Jesus, I have so much to tell 
You.” And the Lord said to me with great love, Speak, My daughter. And I started to 
enumerate the pains of my heart; that is, how greatly concerned I am for all mankind, that 



228 




“they all do not know You, and those who do know You do not love You as You deserve 
to be loved. I also see how terribly sinners offend You; and then again, I see how 
severely the faithful, especially Your servants, are oppressed and persecuted. And then, 
too, I see many souls rushing headlong into the terrible abyss of hell. You see, Jesus, 
this is the pain that gnaws at my heart and bones. And, although You show me special 
love and inundate my heart with streams of Your joys, nevertheless, this does not 
appease the sufferings I have just mentioned, but rather they penetrate my poor heart 
(281) all the more acutely. Oh, how ardently I desire that all mankind turn with trust to 
Your mercy. Then, seeing the glory of Your name, my heart will be comforted.” 

Jesus listened to these outpourings of my heart with gravity and interest, as if He had 
known nothing about them, and this seemed to make it easier for me to talk. And the 
Lord said to me, My daughter, those words of your heart are pleasing to Me, and by 
saying the chaplet you are bringing humankind closer to Me. After these words, I 
found myself alone, but the presence of God is always in my soul. 

930 + O my Jesus, although I will go to You, and You will fill me with Yourself, and that will 
make my happiness complete. I will nevertheless not forget about humanity. I desire to 
draw aside the veils of heaven, so that the earth would have no doubts about The Divine 
Mercy. My repose is in proclaiming Your mercy. The soul gives the greatest glory to its 
Creator when it turns with trust to The Divine Mercy. 

931 (282) February 10, [1937], Today is Ash Wednesday. 

During Holy Mass, I felt for a short time the Passion of Jesus in my members. Lent is a 
very special time for the work of priests. We should assist them in rescuing souls. 

932 A few days ago, I wrote to my director [probably Father Andrasz 168 ], asking permission for 
some little mortifications during Lent. As I did not have the doctor’s permission to go to 
town, I had to do this by letter. But Ash Wednesday is already here, and I still have no 
answer. This morning after Holy Communion, I asked Jesus to inspire my director with 
His light so that he would answer me, and I knew in my soul that Father was not against 
my practicing these mortifications for which I had asked permission, and that he would 
give his permission. So, in peace, I began to undertake these practices. That same 
afternoon I received a letter from Father, saying that he readily gives me permission to 
undertake those practices for which I had asked (283) permission. I was very pleased 
that my interior knowledge was in agreement with my spiritual Father’s opinion. 

933 Then I heard the following words in my soul: You will receive a greater reward for your 
obedience and subjection to your confessor than you will for the practices which 
you will be carrying out. Know this, My daughter, and act accordingly: anything, 
no matter how small it be, that has the seal of obedience to My representative is 
pleasing to Me and great in My eyes. 

934 Small practices for Lent. Although I wish and desire to do so, I cannot practice big 
mortifications as before, because I am under the strict surveillance of the doctor. But I 
can practice little things: first - sleep without a pillow; keep myself a little hungry; every 
day, with my arms outstretched, say the chaplet which the Lord taught me; occasionally, 
with arms outstretched, for an indefinite period of time (284) pray informally. Intention: to 



229 




beg divine mercy for poor sinners, and for priests, the power to bring sinful hearts to 
repentance. 

935 My contact with the dying is, just as it has been in the past, very close. I often 
accompany a person who is dying far away, but my greatest joy is when I see the promise 
of mercy fulfilled in these souls. The Lord is faithful; what He once ordains - He fulfills. 

936 + A certain person in our ward was beginning to die. Amidst terrible tortures, she was 
dying for three days, sometimes regaining consciousness. Everyone in the ward was 
praying for her. I longed to go to her, but Mother Superior had forbidden me to go to visit 
the dying, so I prayed for that poor soul in my room. But when I heard the she was still in 
agony, and thee was no saying how long it was going to take, I suddenly felt inspired in 
my soul and said to the Lord, “Jesus, if all I do is pleasing to You, ( 285 ) I ask You, as 
evidence, to let that soul stop suffering and pass on immediately to her happy eternity.” A 
few minutes later I learned that the person had passed away so peacefully and quickly 
that they did not even have time to light the candle. 

937 + I will say a word more about my spiritual director [Father Andrasz or Father 
Sopocko 169 ]. It is strange that there are so few priests who know how to pour power, 
strength and courage into a soul so that it can make constant progress without getting 
tired. Linder such direction a soul, even of lesser strength, can do much for the glory of 
God. And here I discovered a secret; namely, that the confessor, or rather the spiritual 
director, does not make light of the trifles that the soul brings to him. And when the soul 
notices that it is being controlled in this, it begins to exert itself and does not omit the 
slightest opportunity to practice virtue and also avoids the smallest faults. And from these 
e efforts, as with little stones, there rises within the soul a most beautiful temple. ( 286 ) 
On the contrary, if the soul notices that the confessor neglects these little things, it 
likewise neglects them and ceases to vive an account of them to the confessor and, 
worse still, will begin to grow negligent in little things. Thus, instead of going forward, it 
gradually retreats backward and becomes aware of the situation only when it has already 
fallen into some serious trouble. Here, a serious question poses itself: who is at fault, the 
soul in question or the confessor; that is to say, the director? It seems to me that all the 
blame should be put on the imprudent director; the soul’s only fault is to have taken upon 
itself the choice of a director. The director could well have led the soul along the road of 
God’s will to sanctity. 

938 The soul should have prayed ardently and at greater length for a director and should have 
asked the Lord himself to choose a spiritual director for it. What begins in God will be 
godly, and what begins in a purely human manner will remain human. God is so merciful 
that, in order to ( 287 ) to help a soul He himself chooses the spiritual guide and will 
enlighten the soul concerning the one before whom it should uncover the most hidden 
depths of its soul just as it sees itself before the Lord Jesus Himself. And when the soul 
considers and recognizes that God has been arranging all this, it should pray fervently for 
the confessor that he might have the divine light to know it well. And let it not change 
such a director except for a serious reason. Just as it had prayed fervently and at a great 
length in order to learn God’s will that he leave this director and choose another. If God’s 
will is not absolutely clear, he should not make this change, for a person will not go far by 
himself, and Satan wants just this: to have the person who is aspiring for sanctity direct 
himself because the, without doubt, he will never attain it. 



230 




939 There is an exception [to this], and that is when God Himself directs the person, but the 
director ( 288 ) will immediately recognize that the person in question is being guided by 
God Himself. God will allow him to know this clearly and distinctly, and such a person 
should be even more under the director’s control than anyone else. In this case, the 
director does not so much guide and point out the road along which the soul is to journey; 
but rather, he judges and confirms that the soul is following the right path and is being led 
by a good spirit. 

In this situation, the director should be not only holy, but also experienced and prudent, 
and the soul should give priority to his opinion over that of God Himself, for then the soul 
will be safe from illusions and deviations. A soul that will not fully submit its inspirations to 
the strict control of the Church; that is, to the director, clearly shows by this that a bad 
spirit is guiding it. The director should be extremely prudent in such cases and test the 
soul’s obedience. Satan can even clothe himself in a cloak of humility, but he does not 
know how to ear the cloak of obedience ( 289 ) and thus his evil designs will be disclosed. 
But the director should not be overly afraid of such a soul, because if God puts that 
special soul in his care, He will also give him great divine light regarding it, for otherwise 
how could he deal wisely with the great mysteries which take place between the soul and 
God. 

940 I myself suffered a great deal and was much tried in this respect. Therefore, I am writing 
only about what I myself have experienced. It was only after many novenas, prayers and 
penances that God sent me a priest who understood my soul. Oh, there would be many 
more saintly souls if there were more experienced and saintly confessors. Many a soul, 
earnestly striving for sanctity, cannot manage by itself during times of trial and abandons 
the road to perfection. 

941 O Jesus, give us fervent and holy priest! Oh, how great is the dignity of the priest, but at 

the same time, how great is his responsibility! Much has been given you, O priest, but 
much will also be demanded of you 

942 ( 290 ) February 1 1 , [1937], Today is Friday. During Mass, I suffered pain in my body: in 
my hands, my feet and my side. Jesus is sending me this kind of suffering that I may 
make reparation for sinners. The pain is brief, but very severe. I do not suffer for more 
than a couple of minutes, but the impression remains for along time and is very vivid. 

943 + Today, I feel such desolation in my soul that I do not know how to explain it even to 
myself. I would like to hide from people and cry endlessly. No one understands a heart 
wounded by love, and when such a heart feels itself abandoned interiorly, no one can 
comfort it. O souls of sinners, you have taken the Lord away from me, but all right, all 
right; you get to know how sweet the Lord is, and let the whole sea of bitterness flood my 
heart. I have given all my divine comforts to you. 

944 + There are moments when I mistrust myself, when I feel my own weakness and 
wretchedness in the most profound depths of my own being, and I have noticed that I can 
endure such moments only by trusting in the infinite mercy ( 291 ) of God. Patience, 
prayer and silence - these are what give strength to the soul. There are moments when 
one should be silent, and when it would be inappropriate to talk with creatures; these are 
the moments when one is dissatisfied with oneself, and when the soul feels as weak as a 
little child. Then the soul clings to God with all its might. At such times, I live solely by 



231 




faith, and when I feel strengthened by God’s grace, then I am more courageous in 
speaking and communicating with my neighbors. 

945 In the evening, the Lord said to me, My child, rest on My Heart; I see that you have 

worked hard in my vineyard. And my soul was flooded with divine joy. 

946 February 12, [1937], Today, the presence of God is piercing me through and through, like 
a ray from the sun. My soul is longing for God so intensely that I fall into a swoon every 
now and then. I feel Eternal Love touching my heart, and my littleness cannot bear it, 
( 292 ) and this causes me to swoon. Still, my interior strength is great, and my soul wants 
to match the Love with which it is loved. The soul at such moments has a very deep 
knowledge of God, and the more it comes to know Him, the purer and more fervent does 
its love for Him become. How unfathomable are the mysteries of the soul and God! 

947 Sometimes there are whole hours when my soul is lost in wonder at seeing the infinite 
majesty of God abasing Itself to the level of my soul. Unending is my interior 
astonishment that the Most High Lord is pleased in me and tells me so Himself. And I 
immerse myself even deeper in my nothingness, because I know what I am of myself. 
Still I must say that I, in return, love my Creator to folly with every beat of my hart and with 

every nerve; my soul unconsciously drowns, drowns in Him. I feel that nothing will 

separate me from the Lord, neither heaven nor earth, neither the present nor the future. 
Everything may change, but love never, never; it is always the same. ( 293 ) He, the 
Immortal Mighty One, makes His will known to me that I may love Him very specially, and 
He Himself makes my soul capable of the kind of love with which He wants me to love 
Him. I bury myself more and more in Him, and I fear nothing. 

Love has overtaken my whole heart, and even if I were to be told of God’s justice and of 
how even the pure spirits tremble and cover their faces before Him, saying endlessly, 
“Holy,” which would seem to suggest that my familiarity with God would be to the 
detriment of His honor and majesty, [I would reply,] “O no, no, and once again, no!” In 
pure love, there is room for everything: the highest praise and the deepest adoration, yet 
the soul is immersed in Him in deepest peace through love; and the words of people, 
speaking from the exterior, have no effect upon that soul. What they tell the soul about 
God is but a pale shadow in comparison to its own experience of Him; and it is often 
surprised how other people can be struck with admiration at what someone else says 
about God when, for this soul, it is nothing special, as it knows that what can be put into 
words ( 294 ) is not yet that great. So this soul listens to everything with respect, but has 
its own special life in God. 

948 February 13, [1937], Today, during the Passion Service, 170 I saw Jesus being tortured 
and crowned with thorns and holding a reed in His hand. Jesus was silent as the soldiers 
were bustling about, vying with each other in torturing Him. Jesus said nothing, but just 
looked at me, and in that gaze I felt His pain, so terrible that we have not the faintest idea 
of how much He suffered for us before He was crucified. My soul was filled with pain and 
longing; in my soul, I felt great hatred for sin, and even the smallest infidelity on my part 
seemed to me like a huge mountain for which I must expiate my mortification and 
penance. When I see Jesus tormented, my heart is torn to pieces, and I think: what will 
become of sinners if they do not take advantage of the Passion of Jesus: In His Passion, 
I see a whole sea of mercy. 



232 




February 12, 1937 



+ 

(295) J.M.J. 

+ The Love of God is the flower - Mercy is the fruit. 

949 Let the doubting soul read these considerations on Divine Mercy and become trusting. 171 

Divine Mercy, gushing forth from the bosom of the Father, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, greatest attribute of God, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, incomprehensible mystery, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, fount gushing forth from the mystery of the Most Blessed Trinity, I trust in 
You. 

Divine Mercy, unfathomed by any intellect, human or angelic, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, from which wells forth all life and happiness, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, better than the heavens, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, source of miracles and wonders, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, encompassing the whole universe, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, descending to earth in the Person of the Incarnate Word, I trust in You. 

(296) Divine Mercy, which flowed out from the open wound of the Heart of Jesus, I trust in 
You. 

Divine Mercy, enclosed in the Heart of Jesus for us, and especially for sinners, I trust in 
You. 

Divine Mercy, unfathomed in the institution of the Sacred Host, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, in the founding of Holy Church, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, in the Sacrament of Holy Baptism, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, in our justification through Jesus Christ, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, accompanying us through our whole life, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, embracing us especially at the hour of death, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, endowing us with immortal life, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, accompanying us every moment of our life, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, shielding us from the fire of hell, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy in the conversion of hardened sinners, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy astonishment for Angels, incomprehensible to Saints, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, unfathomed in all the mysteries of God, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, lifting us out of every misery, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, source of our happiness and joy, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, in calling us forth from nothingness to existence, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, embracing all the works of His hands, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, crown of all of God’s handiwork, I trust in You. 

(297) Divine Mercy, in which we are all immersed, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, sweet relief for anguished hearts, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, only hope of despairing souls, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, repose of hearts, peace amidst fear, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, delight and ecstasy of holy souls, I trust in You. 

Divine Mercy, inspiring hope against all hope, I trust in You. 

950 + Eternal God, in whom mercy is endless and the treasury of compassion inexhaustible, 
look kindly upon us and increase Your mercy in us, that in difficult moments we might not 
despair nor become despondent, but with great confidence submit ourselves to Your holy 
will, which is Love and Mercy itself. 



233 




951 + O incomprehensible and limitless Mercy Divine, To extol and adore You worthily, who 
can? 

Supreme attribute of Almighty God, 

You are the sweet hope for sinful man. 

Into one hymn yourselves unite, stars, earth and sea, and in one accord, thankfully and 
fervently sing of the incomprehensible Divine Mercy. 

952 (298) My Jesus, You see that Your holy will is everything to me. It makes no difference to 
me what You do with me. You command me to set to work - and I begin calmly, although 
I know that I am incapable of it; through Your representatives, You order me to wait - so I 
wait patiently; You fill my soul with enthusiasm - but You do not make it possible for me 
to act; You attract me to Yourself in heaven - and You leave me in this world; You pour 
into my soul a great yearning for Yourself - and You hide Yourself from me. I am dying of 
the desire to be united with You forever, and You do not let death come near me. O will 
of God, you are the nourishment and delight of my soul. When I submit to the holy will of 
my God, a deep peace floods my soul. O my Jesus, You do not give a reward for the 
successful performance of a work, but for the good will and the labor undertaken. 
Therefore, I am completely at peace, even if all my undertakings and efforts should be 
thwarted or should come to naught. If I do (299) all that is in my power, the rest is not my 
business. And therefore the greatest storms do not disturb the depths of my peace; the 
will of God dwells in my conscience. 

953 + February 15, 1937. Today my suffering increased somewhat: I not only feel greater 
pain all through my lungs, but also some strange pains in my intestines, I am suffering as 
much as my weak nature can bear, all for immortal souls, to plead the mercy of God for 
poor sinners and to beg for strength for priests. Oh, how much reverence I have for 
priests; and I am asking Jesus, the High Priest, to grant them many graces. 

954 Today after Holy Communion, the Lord told me, My daughter, My delight is to unite 
myself with you. It is when you submit yourself to My will that you give Me the 
greatest glory and draw upon yourself a sea of blessings. I would not take such 
special delight in you if you were not living by my will. O my sweet Guest, I am 
prepared for all sacrifices for Your sake, but You know (300) that I am weakness itself. 
Nevertheless, with You I can do all things. O my Jesus, I beseech You, be with me at 
each instant. 

955 February 15, 1937. Today, I heard these words in my soul: Host pleasing to My 

Father, know, My daughter, that the entire Holy Trinity finds Its special delight in 
you, because you live exclusively by the will of God. No sacrifice can compare 
with this. 

956 + After these words, the knowledge of God’s will came to me; that is to say, I now see 
everything from a higher point of view and accept all events and things, pleasant and 
unpleasant, with love, as tokens of the heavenly Father’s special affection. 

957 The pure offering of my will will burn on the altar of love. That my sacrifice may be 
perfect, I untied myself closely with the sacrifice of Jesus on the cross. When great 
sufferings will cause my nature to tremble, and my physical and spiritual strength will 
diminish, then will I hide myself deep in the open wound of the Heart (301) of Jesus, silent 



234 




as a dove, without complaint. Let all my desires, even the holiest, noblest and most 
beautiful, take always the last place and Your holy will, the very first. The least of Your 
desires, O Lord, is more precious to me than heaven, with all its treasures. I know very 
well that people will not understand me; that is why my sacrifice will be purer in Your 
eyes. 

958 Some days ago, a certain person came to me and asked me to pray for her intention, as 
she had some urgent and important business. All of a sudden, I felt in my soul that this 
matter was not pleasing to God, and I replied that I would not pray for this intention, “but I 
will pray for you, in general” [I added], A few days later, this lady came back to me and 
thanked me for not having prayed for her intention, but rather for her, because she had 
been motivated by a spirit of revenge toward a certain person to whom she owed respect 
and veneration in virtue (302) of the fourth commandment. The Lord Jesus had changed 
her interior [dispositions], and she herself acknowledged her guilt; but was, however, 
surprised that I had penetrated her secret. 

959 + Today I received a letter from Father Sopocko, who sent me greetings for my feast day 
[February 15]. His greetings gave me joy, but his poor health made me sad. I had known 
about this by interior intuition, but had not quite believed it. But it seems to me that if he 
himself wrote that this was so, then the other things about which he did not write are also 
true, and my interior knowledge has not deceived me. He requested me to underline all 
that I know does not come from me; that is to say, all that Jesus tells me which I hear in 
my soul. 172 He has already asked me to do this several times, but I did not have the time 
and, to tell the truth, I was in no hurry to do so. But how does he know that I have not 
done this? I was very surprised; but now I am setting about this work with all my heart. O 
my Jesus, Your representative’s will is clearly Your holy will, without a shadow of a doubt. 

960 (303) February 16, 1937. Today I entered a neighboring room by mistake and so, for a 
while, I talked with the person who was there. When I returned to my own room I thought 
about that person for a few moments. Then suddenly, Jesus stood by my side and said. 
My daughter, what are you thinking about right now? Without thinking, I snuggled 
close to His heart, because I realized that I had been thinking too much about creatures. 

961 + This morning after completing my spiritual exercises, I began at once to crochet. I 
sensed a stillness in my heart; I sensed that Jesus was resting in it. That deep and sweet 
consciousness of God’s presence prompted me to say to the Lord, “O Most Holy Trinity 
dwelling in my heart, I beg You: grant the grace of conversion to as many souls as the 
[number of] stitches that I will make today with this crochet hook.” Then I heard these 
words in my soul: My daughter, too great are your demands, “Jesus, You know that 
for You it is easier to grant much rather than a little.” That is so, it is less difficult for 
Me to grant a soul much rather than a little, but every conversion of a sinful soul 
demands sacrifice. “Well, Jesus, I offer You (304) this whole-hearted work of mine; this 
offering does not seem to me to be too small for such a large number of souls; You know, 
Jesus, that for thirty years You were saving souls by just this kind of work. And since holy 
obedience forbids me to perform great penances and mortifications, therefore I ask You, 
Lord; accept these mere nothings stamped with the seal of obedience as great things.” 
Then I heard a voice in my soul: My dear daughter, I comply with your request. 

962 + I often see a certain person dear to God. The Lord has great love for him, not only 
because he is striving to spread the veneration of God’s mercy, but also because of the 



235 




love he has for the Lord God, although he does not always feel this love in his own heart 
and is almost always in Gethsemane. However, this person is always pleasing to God, 
and his great patience will overcome all difficulties. 

963 + Oh, if only the suffering soul knew how it is loved by God, it would die of joy and excess 
of happiness! Some day, we will know the value of suffering, but then we will no longer 
be able to suffer. The present moment is ours. 

964 (305) February 17, 1937. This morning during Holy Mass, I saw the Suffering Jesus. His 
Passion was imprinted on my body in an invisible manner, but no less painfully. 

965 Jesus looked at me and said, Souls perish in spite of My bitter Passion. I am giving 
them the last hope of salvation; that is, the Feast of My Mercy 255 . If they will not 
adore My mercy, they will perish for all eternity. Secretary of My mercy, write, tell 
souls about this great mercy of Mine, because the awful day, the day of My justice, 
is near. 

966 + Today, I heard in my soul these words: My daughter, it is time for you take action; I 
am with you. Great persecutions and sufferings are in store for you, but be 
comforted by the thought that many souls will be saved and sanctified by this 
work. 

967 + When I set to work at underlining the Lord’s words and thus was going through 
everything in sequence, I reached the page where I had marked down Father Andrasz’s 
advice and directions. I did not know what to do, to underline or not to underline, and 
then I heard these words in my soul: Underline, because these words are Mine; I have 
borrowed the lips (306) of the friend of My Heart in order to speak to you and 
reassure you. You are to observe these directions until your death. It would not 
please Me at all if you were to disobey these directions. Know that it is I who have 
placed him between Myself and your soul. I am doing this to set you at peace and 
so that you may not err. 

968 Since I have placed you in this priest’s special care, you are thus exempted from 
giving a detailed account to your superiors concerning My relationship with you. 
In all other matters, be as a child with your superiors, but whatever I do in the 
depths of your soul is to be told, with all frankness, only to the priests. 

And I have noticed that, from the time God gave me a spiritual director, He has not 
required me to report everything to the superiors, as was the case before, but only that 
which concerns external matters: apart from this, only the director knows my soul. To 
have a spiritual director is a special grace of God. Oh, how few have received it! The 
soul remains in constant peace amidst the greatest difficulties. Every day after Holy 
Communion, I thank the Lord Jesus for this grace, and every (307) day I ask the Holy 
Spirit to enlighten him. I have truly experienced in my soul what power the director’s 
words have. Blessed by God’s mercy for this grace! 

969 + Today, I went to meditate before the Blessed Sacrament [in the sanatorium chapel]. 
When I approached the altar, God’s presence pervaded my soul, I was plunged into the 
ocean of His divinity, and Jesus said to me, My daughter, all that exists is yours. I 
answered the Lord, ‘My heart wants nothing but You alone. O Treasure of my heart. For 



236 




all the gifts You give me, thank you, O Lord, but I desire only Your Heart. Though the 
heavens are immense, they are nothing to me without You. You know very well, O Jesus, 
that I am constantly swooning because of my longing for You.” Know this, My daughter, 
that you are already tasting now what other souls will obtain only in eternity. 

970 And all of a sudden, my soul was flooded with the light of the knowledge of God. Oh, 
would that I could express even a little of what my soul experiences when resting near the 
Heart of the incomprehensible (308) Majesty! I cannot put it into words. Only a soul who 
has experienced such a grace at least once in his life, will recognize it. When I returned 
to my room, it seemed to me that I was coming from real life to death. When the doctor 
came to take my pulse, he was surprised: “Sister, what happened? You have never had 
a pulse like this! I would like to know what has speeded it up so much.” What could I tell 
him, when I myself did not know that my pulse was so rapid. In only know that I am dying 
of yearning for God, but this I did not tell him, for how can medicine help in this instance? 

971 February 19, 1937. Contact with the dying. They ask me for prayer, and I can pray, as 
the Lord grants me an extraordinary spirit of prayer. I am constantly united with Him, and 
I am fully aware that I live for souls in order to bring them to Your mercy, O Lord. In this 
matter, no sacrifice is too insignificant. 

972 (309) Today, the doctor decided that I am to stay here until April. It is God’s will, even 
though I did want to be back in the company of my sisters. 

973 I learned today about the death of one of our sisters 173 who died in Plock, but she visited 
me even before they told me about her death. 

974 February 22, 1 937. Today, there began in our chapel a retreat for the hospital attendants, 
although anyone who wishes may take part in it. There is one conference a day. Father 
Bonaventure 174 speaks for a whole hour, and he speaks directly to souls. I took part in 
this retreat, as I very much desire to know God more deeply and to love Him more 
ardently, for I have understood that the greater the knowledge, the stronger the love. 

975 Today I heard these words: Pray for souls that they be not afraid to approach the 
tribunal of My mercy. Do not grow weary of praying for sinners. You know what a 
burden their souls are to My Heart. Relieve My deathly sorrow; dispense My mercy. 

976 (310) February 24, 1937. Today during Holy Mass, I saw the dying Jesus. The 
sufferings of the Lord pierced my soul and body in an invisible manner. The pain is 
enormous, though it lasts a very short time. 

977 During the singing of the Lenten Lamentations, I am so taken up with His Passion that I 
cannot withhold my tears. I would like to hide somewhere in order to give myself freely to 
the sorrow which flows from the consideration of His Passion. 

978 When I was praying for the intention of Father Andrasz, I learned how very pleasing he is 
to God. Since then, I have had even greater respect for him, as for a saint. This has 
given me great joy, and I thank God fervently for it. 

979 Today at Benediction, I saw Jesus, and He spoke these words to me: Be obedient to 
your director in everything; his word is My will. Be certain in the depths of your 



237 




soul that it is I who am speaking through his lips, and I desire that you reveal the 
state of your soul to him with the same simplicity (311) and candor as you have 
with Me. I say it again, my daughter: know that his word is My will for you. 

980 Today, I saw the Lord in great beauty, and he said to me, My loving host, pray for 
priests, especially during this time of harvest. My Heart is pleased with you, and 
for your sake I am blessing the earth. 

981 I understood that these two years of interior suffering which I have undergone in 
submission to God’s will in order to know it better have advanced me further in perfection 
than the previous ten years. For two years now, I have been on the cross between 
heaven and earth That is to say, I am bound by the vow of obedience and must obey the 
Superior as God Himself. And on the other hand, God makes His will known to me 
directly, and so my inner torture is so great that no one (312) will either understand or 
imagine these spiritual sufferings. It seems to me that it would be easier to give up my life 
than to go again and again through one hour of such pain. I am not even going to write 
much about this matter, because one cannot describe what it is like to know God’s will 
directly and at the same time to be perfectly obedient to the divine will as expressed 
indirectly through the superiors. Thanks be to God that He has given me a director; 
otherwise, I would not have advanced one single step. 

982 + I recently received a lovely letter from my dear seventeen-year old sister [Wanda 175 ]. 
She is begging and entreating me to help her enter the convent. She is ready for any 
sacrifices for God. I can tell from her letter that the Lord Himself is guiding her, and I 
rejoice in God’s great mercy. 

983 + Today, the Majesty of God enveloped and transpierced my soul to its very depths. The 
greatness of God is pervading my being and flooding me so that I am completely 
drowning in His greatness. I am dissolving and disappearing entirely in Him as in my life- 
source, as in perfect life. 

984 (313) My Jesus, I understand well that my perfection consists not in the fact that You 
command me to carry out these great works of Yours - Oh no! - the soul’s greatness 
does not consist in this, but in great love for You. O Jesus, in the depths of my soul I 
understand that the greatest achievements cannot compare with one act of pure love for 
You. I desire to be faithful to You and to do Your bidding. I am making use of my 
strength and my reason to carry out all You are asking of me, O Lord, but I have not the 
least shadow of attachment to all this. I do it all because such is Your will. All my love is 
drowned, not in Your works, but in You Yourself, O my Creator and Lord! 

985 February 25, 1937. I prayed earnestly for a happy death on behalf of a certain soul who 
was suffering much. For two weeks, she had remained between life and death. I was 
touched with pity for her and said to the lord, “Sweet Jesus, if the works I am undertaking 
for Your glory are pleasing to You, then please take her to Yourself (314) and let her rest 
in Your mercy.” I was strangely reassured; and, after a short while, they came to tell me 
that the person who had been suffering so much had just died. 

986 I saw a certain priest [probably Father Sopocko] in need and prayed for him until Jesus 
looked upon him with kindness and granted him His strength. 



238 




987 Today, I came to know that a member of my family is offending God and is in great peril 
of death. This knowledge pierced my soul with such great pain that I thought I would not 
survive that offense against God. Begged God’s pardon, but I saw His great anger. 

988 I was praying for a certain priest [probably Father Sopocko], asking God to help him in 
certain matters when I suddenly saw Jesus Crucified. His eyes were closed, and He was 
immersed in torture. I worshipped His five wounds, each one separately, and asked His 
blessing for him. Jesus gave me to know interiorly how dear that soul was to Him, (315) 
and I felt that grace was flowing from Jesus’ wounds upon that soul who, like Jesus, is 
also stretched upon the cross. 

989 My Lord and my God, You know2 that it is You alone whom my soul has come to love. 
My soul is entirely drowned in You, O Lord. Even if I did not accomplish any of the things 
that You have made known to me, O Lord, I would be completely at peace because I 
would have done what I could. 

990 I know well, O Lord, that You have no need of our works; You demand Love, love and 
once again, love of God - there is nothing greater in heaven or on earth. The greatest 
greatness is to love God; true greatness is in loving God; real wisdom is to love God. All 
that is great and beautiful is in God; there is no beauty or greatness outside of Him. O 
you sages of the world and you great minds, recognize that true greatness is in loving 
God! Oh, how astonished I am that some people deceive themselves, saying: There is 
no eternity! 

991 (316) February 26, 1937. Today, I saw how the Holy Mysteries were being celebrated 
without liturgical vestments and in private homes, because of a passing storm; and I saw 
the sun come out from the Blessed Sacrament, and all other lights went out, or rather, 
they were dimmed; and all the people were looking toward this [one] light. But at the 
present time I do not understand the meaning of this vision. 176 

992 + I am going forward through life amidst rainbows and storms, but with my head held high 
with pride, for I am a royal child. I feel that the blood of Jesus is circulating in my veins, 
and I have put my trust in the great mercy of the Lord. 

993 + I asked the Lord to have a certain person come to visit me today so that I could see her 
one more time, and that would be a sign for me that she was being called to the convent 
which Jesus is having me establish. And, O wonder, the person in question came, and I 
tried to form her a bit, spiritually. I began to show her the way of self-denial and sacrifice, 
which she readily accepted. However, I have placed this whole matter in the hands of the 
Lord, that He may direct everything according to His good pleasure. 

994 (317) Today, when I heard the hymn, “Good night, Holy Head of My Jesus,” on the radio, 
my spirit was suddenly drowned in God, and divine love flooded my soul; I dwelt for a 
moment with the heavenly Father. 

995 + Although it is not easy to live in constant agony, 

To be nailed to the cross of various pains, 

Still, I am inflamed with love by loving, 

And like a Seraph I love God, though I am but 
weakness. 



239 




Oh, great is the soul that, midst suffering, 

Stands faithfully by God and does His will 
And remains uncomforted midst great rainbows 
And storms, 

For God’s pure love sweetens her fate. 

It is no great thing to love God in prosperity 
And thank Him when all goes well, 

But rather to adore Him midst great adversities 

And love Him for His own sake and place one’s hope in Him. 

When the soul is in the shadows of Gethsemane, 

All alone in the bitterness of pain, 

(318) It ascends towards the heights of Jesus, 

And though ever drinking bitterness - it is not sad. 

When the soul does the will of the Most High God, 

Even amidst constant pain and torments, 

Having pressed its lips to the chalice proffered, 

It becomes mighty, and nothing will daunt it. 

Though tortured, it repeats: Your will be done, 

Patiently awaiting the moment of its transfiguration, 

For, though in deepest darkness, it hears the voice of Jesus: You are Mine, 

And this it will know fully when the veil falls. 

996 February 28, 1937. Today, I was undergoing the Passion of Jesus for a longer time, and 
thus I saw that many souls were in need of prayer. I feel that I am being completely 
transformed into prayer in order to beg God’s mercy for every soul. O my Jesus, I am 
receiving You into my heart as a pledge of mercy for souls. 

997 This evening, when I heard the hymn, “Good night, Holy Head of my Jesus,” on the radio, 
my spirit was suddenly swept away to God’s mysterious bosom, and I knew (319) in what 
the greatness of a soul consists and what matters to God: love, love, and once again, 
love. And I understood how all that exists is saturated with God, and such a love of God 
inundated my soul that I am at a loss to describe it. Happy the soul that knows how to 
love unreservedly, for in this lies its greatness. 

998 Today, I took part in a one-day retreat. When I was at the last conference, 177 the priest 
was speaking of how much the world needs God’s mercy, and that this seems to be a 
special time when people have great need of prayer and God’s mercy. Then I heard a 
voice in my soul: These words are for you. Do all you possibly can for this work of 
My mercy. I desire that My mercy be worshiped, and I am giving mankind the last 
hope of salvation; that is, recourse to My mercy. My Heart rejoices in this feast. 
After these words, I understood that nothing can dispense me from the obligation which 
the Lord demands from me. 

999 Last night I was in such pain that I thought it was the end. The doctors could not 
diagnose what the sickness was. (320) I felt as if my entrails had been torn to shreds, 



240 




but after a few hours of such sufferings I am all right. All this is for sinners. Let Your 
mercy descend upon them, O Lord. 

1000 In the terrible desert of life, 

O my sweetest Jesus, 

Protect souls from disaster, 

For You are the Fountain of Mercy. 

Let the resplendence of Your rays, 

0 sweet Commander of our souls, 

Let mercy change the world. 

And you who have received this grace, serve Jesus. 

Steep is the great highway I must travel, 

But I fear nothing, 

For the pure fount of mercy is flowing for my sake, 

And, with it, strength for the humble soul. 

1 am exhausted and worn out, 

But my conscience bears me witness 
That I do all for the greater glory of the Lord, 

The Lord who is my repose and my heritage. 

[End of Notebook Two of the Diary] 



241 




Sister Faustina of the Biessed 
Sacrament 



Congregation 

Of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy 



I shall Sing the Lord’s Mercy 



Notebook III 



NOTEBOOK III 



( 1 )+ 

J.M.J. 

1 001 Thank You, O Lord, my Master, 

That You have transformed me entirely into Yourself, 
And accompany me through life’s toils and labors; 

I fear nothing when I have You in my heart. 



242 




+ 

J.M.J. 



1002 The Lord’s Supper is laid, 

Jesus sits down at table with His Apostles, 

His Being all transformed into love, 

For such was the Holy Trinity’s counsel. 

With great desire, I desire to eat with you, 

Before I suffer death. 

About to leave you, love holds Me in your midst. 

He sheds His Blood, gives His life, for He loves immensely. 

Love hides beneath the appearance of bread, 

Departing, He remains with us. 

Such self-abasement was not needed, 

Yet burning love hid Him under these species. 

Over the bread and wine He says these words: 

“This is My Blood, this is My Body.” 

Although mysterious, these are words of love. 

Then He passes the Cup among His disciples. 

Jesus grew deeply troubled within 

And said, “One of you will betray his Master.” 

They fell silent, with a silence as of the tomb, 

And John inclined his head on His breast. 

The supper is ended. 

Let us go to Gethsemane. 

Love is satisfied, 

And there the traitor is waiting. 



( 2 )+ 

J.M.J. 

1003 O Divine Will, You are my nourishment, You are my delight. Hasten, O Lord, the Feast of 
Mercy that souls may recognize the fountain of Your goodness. 



God and souls. 



Sister M. Faustina 
Of the Blessed Sacrament 



Cracow, March 1 , 1 937. 

1 004 O will of the Omnipotent God, 
You are my delight, 

You are my joy. 



243 




Whatever the hand of my Lord holds out to me 
I will accept with gladness, submission and love. 

Your holy will is my repose; 

In it is contained all my sanctity, 

And all my eternal salvation, 

For doing God’s will is the greatest glory. 

The will of God - those are his various wishes 
Which my soul carries out without reserve, 

Because such are His divine desires, 

In those moments when God shares His confidences with me. 

Do with me as You will, Lord. 

I place no obstacles, I make no reservations. 

For You are my whole delight and the love of my soul, 

And to You, in turn, I pour out the confidences of my heart. 



+ 

(3) J.M.J. Cracow, March 1, 1937 

+ Third Notebook 

1005 Let the glory and praise to The Divine Mercy rise from every creature throughout all ages 
and times. 

1006 + O my Lord and god, You command me to write about the graces You grant me. O my 
Jesus, were it not for a clear command from my confessors, 178 that I am to write down 
what goes on in my soul, I would not, of my own choice, write a single word. And so, if I 
do write about myself, it is at the formal command of holy obedience. 

1007 + Praise and glory be to You, O Holy Trinity, Eternal God. May the mercy springing from 
your very bowels protect us from Your just anger. Let the praise of Your 
incomprehensible mercy resound everywhere. All Your works bear the seal of Your 
unfathomable mercy, O God. 

1008 March 1 , 1937. The Lord gave me to know how displeased He is with a talkative soul. I 

find no rest in such a soul. The constant din tires Me, and in the midst of it the soul 
cannot discern My voice. 

1009 Today I asked the Lord Jesus to let me meet with a certain person, and this would be a 
sign for me that He is calling her to this convent [which I am to found]. And I did meet her 
and understood that this soul has a vocation, and I asked the Lord to deign to form her 
Himself. I have talked to her often about a vocation; the Lord will do the rest. 

1010 (4) + March 5, 1937. Today, I experienced the Passion of the Lord Jesus in my own body 
for a long while. The pain is very great, but all this is for the sake of immortal souls. 

1011 Today, the Lord visited me, pressed me to His Heart and said, Rest, My little child, I am 
always with you. 



244 




1012 + March 8, 1937. Today, as I was praying for the intention of Father Andrasz, I suddenly 
understood how intimately this soul communed with God and how pleasing he was to the 
lord. It gave me immense joy, because I desire intensely that all souls be united with God 
as closely as possible. 

1013 + During prayer today, my soul was overcome with such a strong desire to begin the 
work, that I could not restrain my enthusiasm. Oh, how ardently I desire that the souls in 
this Congregation present themselves before the throne of God and continuously implore 
His incomprehensible mercy on behalf of the whole world, praising and glorifying this 
unfathomable mercy of God. A mysterious force is driving me to action. 

101 4 March 1 2, 1 937. I saw the weariness of a certain priest [probably Father Sopocko] for 
whom the Lord has traced out a hard and difficult road; but the fruits of his work are alive. 
May God give us many such souls, capable of loving Him in the midst of the greatest 
torments. 

1015 +1 felt today how greatly a certain dying soul desired prayers. I prayed until I felt she had 
died. Oh, dying souls are in such great need of prayer! O Jesus, inspire souls to pray 
often for the dying. 

101 6 ( 5 ) March 1 5, 1 937. Today, I entered into the bitterness of the Passion of the Lord 
Jesus. I suffered in a purely spiritual way. I learned how horrible sin was. God gave me 
to know the whole hideousness of sin. I learned in the depths of my soul how horrible sin 
was, even the smallest sin, and how much it tormented the soul of Jesus. I would rather 
suffer a thousand hells than commit even the smallest venial sin. 

101 7 The Lord said to me, I want to give Myself to souls and to fill them with My love, but 
few there are who want to accept all the graces My love has intended for them. My 
grace is not lost; if the soul for whom it was intended does not accept it, another 
soul takes it. 

1018 I frequently feel that certain persons are praying for me. I experience this suddenly in my 
soul, but I do not always know which person is interceding for me. I also know when 
some person has trouble because of something that has to do with me; of this too I am 
inwardly aware, even though the distance [that separates us] is very great. 179 

1019 March 18, 1937. I have come to know that I have received a certain grace that brings me 
into great intimacy and communion with the Lord. He gives me to know this by means of 
an interior light. He allows me to know His greatness and holiness and how graciously 
He lowers Himself to me. He gives me an exclusive knowledge of His love for me, and of 
how He is Lord of absolutely all things, and also of how He gives Himself to a soul while 
suspending all laws of nature. He acts as He wills. 

1020 I understand the spiritual espousal of a soul with God, which has no exterior 
manifestation. It is a purely interior act between the soul and God. This grace has drawn 
me into the very burning center of God’s love. I have come to understand His Trinitarian 
quality and the absolute Oneness of His Being. This grace is different from all other 
graces. It is so extremely spiritual that my inaccurate description knows not how to 
express even a shade of it. 



245 




1021 (6) + I have such a strong desire to hide myself that I would like to live as though I did not 
exist. I feel a strange inner urge to hide myself as deeply as possible so as to be known 
only to the Heart of Jesus. I want to be a quiet little dwelling place for Jesus to rest in. I 
shall admit nothing that might awaken my Beloved. My concealment gives me a chance 
to commune constantly and exclusively with my Bridegroom. I commune with creatures 
in so far as it is pleasing to Him. My heart has come to love the Lord with the full force of 
love, and I know no other love, because it is from the beginning that my soul has sunk 
deeply in the Lord as in its only treasure. 

1022 + Although outwardly I meet with many sufferings and various adversities, this does not, 
however, lessen my interior life for a moment nor disturb my inner silence. I do not fear at 
all being abandoned by creatures because, even if all abandoned me, I would not be 
alone, for the Lord is with me. And even if the Lord were to hide, love will know how to 
find Him. For love knows no gates or guards; even the keen-eyed Cherub himself, with 
his flaming sword, will not stop love; it will work its way through wilderness, and scorching 
heat, through storm, thunder and darkness, and will reach the source from which it came, 
and there it will endure forever. All things will come to an end; but love, never. 

1023 + Today, I received some oranges. When the sister had left, I thought to myself, “Should 

I eat the oranges instead of doing penance and mortifying myself during Holy Lent? After 
all, I am feeling a bit better.” Then I heard a voice in my soul: My daughter, you please 
Me more by eating the oranges out of obedience and love of Me than by fasting and 
mortifying yourself of your own will. A soul that loves Me very much must, ought 
to live by My will. I know your heart, and I know that it will not be satisfied by 
anything but My love alone. 

1024 ( 7 ) + I would not know how to live without the Lord. Jesus often visits me in this 
seclusion, teaches me, reassures me, rebukes me, and admonished me. He Himself 
forms my heart according to His divine wishes and likings, but always with much 
goodness and mercy. Our hearts are fused as one. 

1025 March 19, 1937. Today, I united myself in spirit with the Adoration that is taking place in 
our house [40-hour Adoration in Cracow], but my soul was full of torments, and some 
strange kind of apprehension was piercing my heart. Because of this, I redoubled my 
prayers. Suddenly I saw the gaze of god reaching into the depths of my heart. 

1026 As I sat down to a very tasty breakfast, I said to the Lord, “Thank you for these gifts, but 
my heart is dying of longing for You, and nothing earthly is tasty to me. I desire the food 
on Your love.” 

1027 Today I was drawn by some mysterious force to act. I must resist this attraction, or else I 
would follow it at once. 

1028 March 21 , 1937. Palm Sunday. During Mass, my soul was steeped in the bitterness and 
suffering of Jesus. Jesus gave me to understand how much He had suffered in that 
triumphal procession. “Hosanna” was reverberating in Jesus’ heart as an echo of 
“Crucify.” Jesus allowed me to feel this in a special way. 

1029 The doctor did not allow me to go to the chapel to attend the Passion Service, although I 
had a great desire for it; however, I prayed in my own room. Suddenly I heard the bell in 



246 




the next room, and I went in and rendered a service to a seriously sick person. (8) When 
I returned to my room, I suddenly saw the Lord Jesus, who said, My daughter, you gave 
Me greater pleasure by rendering Me that service than if you had prayed for a long 
time. I answered, “But it was not to You, Jesus, but to that patient that I rendered this 
service.” And the Lord answered me, Yes, My daughter, but whatever you for your 
neighbor, you do for Me. 

1030 + O my Jesus, give me wisdom, give me a mind great and enlightened by Your light, and 
this only, that I may know You better, O Lord. For the better I get to know You, the more 
ardently will I love You, the sole object of my love. In You my soul drowns, in You my 
heart dissolves. I know no how to love partially, but only with the full strength of my soul 
and the total ardor of my heart. You Yourself, O Lord, have enkindled this love of mine 
for You; in You my heart has drowned forever. 

1031 March 22, 1937. As I was talking, today, to a certain person, I recognized that she was 
suffering greatly in spirit, although exteriorly she pretended that she was very happy and 
was not suffering at all. I felt inspired to tell her that what was troubling her was a 
temptation. When I disclosed to her what was torturing her, she burst into tears and told 
me that she had come to see me precisely to speak to me, because she felt that it would 
bring her relief. The suffering was of such a kind that the soul was being attracted by 
god’s grace on the one hand and by the world on the other. She was going through a 
terrible struggle that brought her to the point of weeping like a little child. But she went 
away soothed and set at peace. 

1032 + During Holy Mass, I saw the Lord Jesus nailed upon the cross amidst great torments. A 
soft moan issued from His Heart. After some time, He said, I thirst. I thirst for 
salvation of souls. Help Me, My daughter, to save souls. Join your sufferings to 
My Passion and offer them to the heavenly Father for sinners. 

1033 (9) + When I see that the burden is beyond my strength, I do not consider or analyze it or 
probe into it, but I run like a child to the Heart of Jesus and say only one word to Him: 

“You can do all things.” And then I keep silent, because I know that Jesus Himself will 
intervene in the matter, and as for me, instead of tormenting myself, I use that time to love 
Him. 

1034 Monday of Holy Week. I asked the Lord to let me take part in His Sorrowful Passion that I 
might experience in soul and body, to the extent that this is possible for a creature, His 
bitter Passion. I asked to experience all the bitterness, in so far as this was possible. 

And the Lord answered that He would give me this grace, and that on Thursday, after 
Holy Communion, He would grant this in a special way. 

1035 + This evening, a certain young man was dying; he was suffering terribly. For his 
intention, I began to say the chaplet which the Lord had taught me. I said it all, but the 
agony continued. I wanted to start the Litany of the Saints, but suddenly I heard the 
words, Say the chaplet. I understood that the soul needed the special help of prayers 
and great mercy. And so I locked myself in my room and fell prostrate before God and 
begged for mercy upon that soul. Then I felt the great majesty of God and His great 
justice. I trembled with fear, but did not stop begging the Lord’s mercy for that soul. Then 
I took the cross off my breast, the crucifix I had received when making my vows, 180 and I 
put it on the chest of the dying man and said to the Lord, “Jesus, look on this soul with the 



247 




same love with which You looked on my holocaust on the day of my perpetual vows, and 
by the power of the promise which You made to me in respect to the dying and those who 
would invoke Your mercy on them, [grant this man the grace of a happy death].” His 
suffering then ceased, and he died peacefully. Oh, how much we should pray for the 
dying! Let us take advantage of mercy while there is still time for mercy. 

1036 (10) + I realize more and more how much every soul needs God’s mercy throughout life 
and particularly at the hour of death. This chaplet mitigates God’s anger, as He Himself 
told me. 

1 037 + I find myself so weak that were it not for Holy Communion I would fall continually. One 
thing alone sustains me, and that is Holy Communion. From it I draw my strength; in it is 
all my comfort. I fear life on days when I do not receive Holy Communion. I fear my own 
self. Jesus concealed in the Host is everything to me. From the tabernacle I draw 
strength, power, courage and light. Here, I seek consolation in time of anguish. I would 
not know how to give glory to God if I did not have the Eucharist in my heart. 

1038 + My beloved native land, Poland, if you only knew how many sacrifices and prayers I 
offer to God for you! But be watchful and give glory to God, who lifts you up and singles 
you out in a special way. But know how to be grateful. 

1039 + I suffer great pain at the sight of the sufferings of others. All these sufferings are 
reflected in my heart. I carry their torments in my heart so that it even wears me out 
physically. I would like all pains to fall upon me so as to bring relief to my neighbor. 

1040 Amid terrible torments, I fix my eyes on You, my God, and though a storm is gathering 
over my head, I know that the sun is not extinguished. Nor do I wonder at the 
deceitfulness of creatures, but I accept in advance whatever may happen. My lips are 
silent, while my ears are satiated with derision. I strive for silence in my heart amidst the 
greatest sufferings, and I protect myself against all attacks with the shield of Your Name. 

1041 (11) An ardent desire for this Feast 181 is burning up my whole soul. In fervent prayer for 
the hastening of the Feast I find some relief, and I have begun a novena for the intention 
of certain priests that God may grant them light and inspiration to apply for the 
promulgation of this Feast, and that the Spirit of God inspire the Holy Father regarding the 
entire matter. 

The novena consists of an hour of adoration before the Blessed Sacrament. I have 
implored God to hasten this feast and have asked the Holy Spirit to inspire certain people 
regarding this whole matter. I am finishing this novena on Holy Thursday. 

1042 + March 23, 1937. Today is the seventh day of the novena. I have received a great and 
inconceivable grace: the Most Merciful Jesus has promised that I will be present at the 
celebration of this solemn Feast. 

1043 This day, the 23 rd , that is, Tuesday of Holy Week, is a day on which the Lord has granted 
me many graces. 

1044 Suddenly, God’s presence took hold of me, and at once I saw myself in Rome, in the Holy 
Father’s chapel and at the same time I was in our chapel. And the celebration of the Holy 
Father and the entire Church was closely connected with our chapel and, in a very special 



248 




way, with our Congregation. And I took part in the solemn celebration simultaneously 
here and in Rome, for the celebration was so closely connected with Rome that, even as I 
write, I cannot distinguish the two but I am writing it down as I saw it. I saw the Lord 
Jesus in our chapel, exposed in the monstrance on the high altar. The chapel was 
adorned as for a feast, and on that day anyone who wanted to come was allowed in. 182 
The crowd was so enormous that the eye could not take it all in. Everyone was 
participating in the celebrations with great joy, and many of them obtained what they 
desired. (12) The same celebration was held in Rome, in a beautiful church, and the 
Holy Father, with all the clergy, was celebrating this Feast, and then suddenly I saw Saint 
Peter, who stood between the altar and the Holy Father. I could not hear what Saint 
Peter said but I saw that the Holy Father understood his words 

1045 Then some clergymen whom I did not know began to examine me and to humiliate me, 183 
or rather, what I had written; but I saw how Jesus Himself was defending me and giving 
them to understand what they did not know. 

1046 Then suddenly, I saw how the two rays, as painted in the image, issued from the Host 
and spread over the whole world. This lasted only a moment, but it seemed as though it 
had lasted all day, and our chapel was overcrowded all day long, and the whole day 
abounded in joy. 

1047 Then suddenly I saw on our altar the living Lord Jesus, just as He is depicted in the 
image. Yet I felt that the sisters and all the people did not see the Lord Jesus as I saw 
Him. Jesus looked with great kindness and joy at the Holy Father, at certain priests, at 
the entire clergy, at the people and at our Congregation. 

1048 Then, in an instant, I was caught up to stand near Jesus, and I stood on the altar next to 
the Lord Jesus, and my spirit was filled with happiness so great that I am unable to 
comprehend it or write about it. A profound peace as well as repose filled my soul. Jesus 
bent toward me and said with great kindness, What is it you desire, My daughter? And 

I answered, “I desire worship and glory be given to Your mercy.” I already am receiving 
worship by the institution and celebration of this Feast; what else do you desire? I 
then looked at the immense crowd worshiping The Divine Mercy and I said to the Lord, 
“Jesus, bless all those who are gathered to give glory to You and to venerate Your infinite 
mercy.” Jesus made a sign of the cross with His hand, and this blessing was reflected in 
the souls like a flash of light. (13) My spirit was engulfed in His love. I felt as if I had 
dissolved and disappeared completely in God. When I came to myself, a profound peace 
was flooding my soul, and an extraordinary understanding of many things was 
communicated to my intellect, an understanding that had not been granted me previously. 

1049 I am immensely happy, although I am the least of all; and I would not change anything of 
what God has given me. I would not want to change places even with a Seraph, as 
regards the interior knowledge of God which He Himself has given me. The intimate 
knowledge I have of the Lord is such as no creature can comprehend, particularly, the 
depth of his mercy that envelops me. I am happy with everything You give me. 

1050 March 24, 1937. Wednesday of Holy Week. My heart is languishing for God. I desire to 
become united with Him. A faint fear pierces my soul and at the same time a kind of 
flame of love sets my heart on fire. Love and suffering are united in my heart. 



249 




1051 I have felt great sufferings in my body, but I feel the Lord is upholding me, for otherwise I 
would not be able to bear it. 

1052 O my Jesus, I beg You on behalf of the whole Church: Grant it love and the light of Your 
Spirit, and give power to the words of priests so that hardened hearts might be brought to 
repentance and return to You, O Lord. Lord, give us holy priests; You yourself maintain 
them in holiness. O Divine and Great High Priest, may the power of your mercy 
accompany them everywhere and protect them from the devil’s traps and snares which 
are continually being set for the souls of priests. May the power of Your mercy, O Lord, 
shatter and bring to naught all that might tarnish the sanctity of priests, for You can do all 
things. 

1053 ( 14 ) March 25, 1 937. Holy Thursday. During Holy Mass, I saw the Lord, who said to me, 
Lean your head on My breast and rest. The Lord pressed me to His Heart and said, I 

shall give you a small portion of My Passion, but do not be afraid, be brave; do not 
seek relief, but accept everything with submission to My will. 

1054 When Jesus was taking leave of me, such great pain filled my soul that it is impossible to 
express it. Physical strength left me; I left the chapel quickly and went to bed. I was 
oblivious of what was going on around me. My soul was filled with longing for the Lord, 
and all the bitterness of His Divine Heart was imparted to me. This lasted for about three 
hours. I asked the Lord to protect me from the eyes of these around me. Although I 
wanted to, I could not take any food all day, until evening. 

I earnestly desired to spend the whole night with Jesus in the dark prison cell. 184 I prayed 
until eleven o’clock. At eleven, the Lord said to me, Lie down and take your rest. I 
have let you experience in three hours what I suffered during the whole night. And 
immediately I went to bed. 

I had no physical strength left; the suffering had deprived me of it completely. Throughout 
all this time, I had been in a sort of swoon. Every beat of Jesus’ Heart was reflected in 
my heart and pierced my soul. If these tortures had concerned me only, I would have 
suffered less; but as I looked at the One whom my heart has loved with all its might and 
saw that He was suffering, and that I could not bring Him any relief, my heart dissolved in 
love and bitterness. I was dying with Him, and yet I could not die. But I would not have 
exchanged that martyrdom for all the pleasures in the whole world. In the course of this 
suffering, my love grew immeasurably. I know that the Lord was supporting me with His 
omnipotence, for otherwise I would not have been able to endure it for even a moment. 
Together with Him, I underwent, in a special way, all the various tortures. The world still 
has no idea of all that Jesus suffered. (15) I accompanied Him to the Garden of 
Gethsemane; I stayed with Him in the prison; I went with Him before the judges; I 
underwent with Him each of the tortures. Not a single one of His movements or looks 
escaped my notice. I came to know all the omnipotence of His love and of His mercy 
towards souls. 

1055 March 26, 1937. Friday. In the morning, I at once felt the torture of His five wounds in my 
body. This suffering continued until three o’clock. Although there is no outward sign of it, 
the torture is no less painful. I am glad that Jesus is protecting me from people’s eyes. 



250 




1056 At eleven o’clock Jesus said to me, My host, you are refreshment for My tormented 

Heart. I thought, after these words, that my heart would burn up. And He brought me 
into such close intimacy with Himself that my heart was espoused to His Heart in a loving 
union, and I could feel the faintest stir of His Heart and he, of mine. The fire of my 
created love was joined to the ardor of His eternal love. This one grace surpasses all 
others in its immensity. His Trinitarian Being enveloped me entirely, and I am totally 
immersed in Him. My littleness is, as it were, wrestling with this Immortal Might One. I 
am immersed in incomprehensible love and incomprehensible torture because of His 
Passion. All that concerns His Being is imparted to me also. 

1057 Up to now, Jesus has been bringing me to know about, and to have a presentiment of, 
this grace, but today He granted it to me. I would not even dare to dream about it. My 
heart is in ceaseless ecstasy, as it were, although outwardly nothing disturbs my contacts 
with my neighbor or my attending to various matters. Nothing is capable of interrupting 
my ecstasy, nor can anyone suspect it, because I have asked God to protect me from 
detection by people. And, together with this grace, there entered my soul a whole ocean 
of light, enabling me to understand God and myself. Amazement overwhelms me entirely 
and leads me as if into a new ecstasy [aroused by the fact] that God has deigned to 
descend to me, who am so little. 

1058 (16) + At three o’clock, I prayed prostrate, in the form of a cross, for the whole world. 
Jesus’ mortal life was coming to an end. I heard His seven words: then He looked at me 

and said, Beloved daughter of My Heart, you are My solace amidst terrible torments. 

1059 Jesus is commanding me to make a novena before the Feast of Mercy, and today I am to 
begin it for the conversion of the whole world and for the recognition of The Divine 
Mercy. .. so that every soul will praise My goodness. I desire trust from My 
creatures. Encourage souls to place great trust in My fathomless mercy. Let the 
weak, sinful souls have no fear to approach Me, for even if it had more sins that 
there are grains of sand in the world, all would be drowned in the unmeasurable 
depths of My mercy. 

1060 When Jesus had given up His last breath, my soul dissolved from the pain, and for a long 
time I could not come to myself. I found some relief in tears. The One whom my heart 
had come to love has died. Will anyone understand my grief? 

1061 In the evening, over the radio, I heard hymns; that is, psalms, sung by priests. 185 I burst 
into tears, and all of the pain was renewed in my soul, and I wept sorrowfully, unable to 
find appeasement in this pain. Then I heard a voice in my soul: Do not cry; I am not 
suffering any more. And for the faithfulness with which you accompanied Me in My 
sufferings and death, your own death will be a solemn one, and I will accompany 
you in that last hour. Beloved pearl of My Heart, I see your love so pure, purer than 
that of the angels, and all the more so because you keep fighting. For your sake I 
bless the world. I see your efforts to please Me, and they delight My Heart. 

After these words, I wept no more, but thanked the heavenly Father for having sent us His 
Son and for the work of the Redemption of mankind. 

1062 (17) + I made an hour of adoration in thanksgiving for the graces which had been granted 
me and for my illness. Illness also is a great grace. I have been ill for four months, but I 



251 




do not recall having wasted so much as a minute of it. All has been for God and souls; I 
want to be faithful to Him everywhere. 

During this adoration, I realized the utter care and goodness that Jesus has been 
lavishing upon me and the protection He has given me against all evil. I thank You 
especially, Jesus, for visiting me in my solitude, and I thank You also for inspiring my 
superiors to send me for this treatment. Give them, Jesus, the omnipotence of Your 
blessing and compensate them for all the losses incurred because of me. 

1063 Today, Jesus is bidding me to comfort and reassure a certain soul who has opened 
herself to me and told me about her difficulties. This soul is pleasing to the Lord, but she 
is not aware of it. God is keeping her in deep humility. I have carried out the Lord’s 
directives. 

1064 + O my most sweet Master, good Jesus, I give You my heart. You shape and mold it 
after Your liking. O fathomless love, I open the calyx of my heart to You, like a rosebud to 
the freshness of dew. To You alone, my Betrothed, is known the fragrance of the flower 
of my heart. Let the fragrance of my sacrifice be pleasing to You. O Immortal God, my 
everlasting delight, already here on earth You are my heaven. May every beat of my 
heart be a new hymn of praise to You, O Holy Trinity! Had I as many hearts as there are 
drops of water in the ocean or grains of sand in the whole world, I would offer them all to 
You, O my Love, O Treasure of my heart! Whomever I shall meet in my life, no matter 
who they may be, I want to draw them all to love You, O my Jesus, my Beauty, my 
Repose, my sole Master, Judge, Savior and Spouse, all in one; I know that one title will 
modify the other - I have entrusted everything to Your mercy. 

1065 ( 18 ) + My Jesus, support me when difficult and stormy days come, days of testing, days 
of ordeal, when suffering and fatigue begin to oppress my body and my soul. Sustain me, 
Jesus, and give me strength to bear suffering. Set a guard upon my lips that they may 
address no word of complaint to creatures. Your most merciful Heart is all my hope. I 
have nothing for my defense but only Your mercy; in it lies all my trust. 

1 066 March 27, 1 937. Today, I returned from Pradnik, after nearly four months of treatment. 
For everything, I give great thanks to God. I have made use of every moment to glorify 
God. When I went into the chapel for a moment, I realized how much I would have to 
suffer and struggle, with regard to this whole matter. O Jesus, my strength, You alone 
can help me; grant me fortitude. 

1067 March 28. Resurrection. During the Mass of Resurrection, I saw the Lord in beauty and 
splendor, and He said to me, My daughter, peace be with you. He blessed me and 
disappeared, and my soul was filled with gladness and joy beyond words. My heart was 
fortified for struggle and sufferings. 

1068 Today, I had a conversation with Father [Andrasz] and he recommended great caution in 
the matter of these sudden appearances of the Lord Jesus. When he was speaking 
about divine mercy, some sort of strength and power entered my heart. My God, I want 
so much to express everything and am so very unable to do so. Father tells me that the 
Lord Jesus is very generous in communicating himself to souls and, on the other hand, 

He is, so to speak, stingy. “Although God’s generosity is very great,” said Father, “be 
careful anyway, because these sudden appearances arouse suspicion; although, 



252 




personally, I do not see anything wrong here, or anything contrary to faith. Be a little 
more careful, and when Mother Superior comes, you can talk to her about these things.” 

1069 (19) March 29, 1937. During meditation today, I saw the Lord in great beauty, and He 
said to me, Peace be to you, My daughter. My whole soul trembled with love for Him 
and I said, “O Lord, although I love You with all my heart, please do not appear to me, 
because my spiritual director has told me that these sudden appearances of yours arouse 
the suspicion that You could be an illusion. And although I love You more than my own 
life, and I know that You are my Lord and God, who are communing with me, I must 
above all be obedient to my confessor.” 

Jesus listened to my words with gravity and kindness and spoke these words to me: Tell 
your confessor that I commune with your soul in such an intimate manner because 
you do not steal My gifts, and this is why I pour all these graces upon your soul, 
because I know that you will not hoard them for yourself. But as a sign that his 
prudence is agreeable to Me, you shall not see Me, and I will not appear to you in 
this way until you have given him an account of what I have just said. 

1070 + April 2, 1937. In the morning, during Mass, I heard these words: Tell the Superior 
that I want adoration to take place here for the intention of imploring mercy for the 
world. 

1071 O my Jesus, You alone know what my heart is going through. O my Strength, You can 
do all things, and though I expose myself to great sufferings, I shall always remain faithful 
to You because I am sustained by Your singular grace. 

1072 + April 3, 1937. Today, the Lord said to me, Tell the Reverend Professor [probably 
Father Theodore 186 ] that I desire that on the Feast of My Mercy he deliver a sermon 
about My fathomless mercy. I fulfilled God’s wish, but the priest did not want to 
acknowledge the Lord’s message. When I left the confessional, I heard these words: Do 

as I tell you and be at peace; this matter is between him and Me. You will not be 
held responsible for this. 

1073 (20) April 4, 1937. Low Sunday; that is, the Feast of Mercy. In the morning, after Holy 
Communion, my soul was immersed in the Godhead. I was united to the Three Divine 
persons in such a way that when I was united to Jesus, I was simultaneously united to the 
Father and to the Holy Spirit, My soul was flooded with joy beyond understanding, and 
the Lord gave me to experience the whole ocean and abyss of His fathomless mercy. Oh, 
if only souls would want to understand how much God loves them! All comparisons, even 
if they were the most tender and the most vehement, are but a mere shadow when set 
against the reality. 

When I was united to the Lord, I came to know how many souls are glorifying God’s 
mercy. 

1074 When I went for adoration, I heard these words: My beloved daughter, write down 
these words, that today My Heart has rested in this convent [the Cracow house]. Tell 
the world about My mercy and My love. 



253 




The flames of mercy are burning me. I desire to pour them out upon human souls. 
Oh, what pain they cause Me when they do not want to accept them! 

My daughter, do whatever is within your power to spread devotion to My mercy. I 
will make up for what you lack. Tell aching mankind to snuggle close to My 
merciful Heart, and I will fill it with peace. 

Tell [all people], My daughter, that I am Love and Mercy itself. When a soul 
approaches Me with trust, I fill it with such an abundance of graces that it cannot 
contain them within itself, but radiates them to other souls. 

1075 Souls who spread the honor of My mercy I shield through their entire lives as a 
tender mother her infant, and at the hour of death I will not be a Judge for them, but 
the merciful Savior. (21) At that last hour, a soul has nothing with which to defend 
itself except My mercy. Happy is the soul that during its lifetime immersed itself in 
the Fountain of Mercy, because justice will have no hold on it. 

1076 Write this: Everything that exists is enclosed in the bowels of My mercy, more 
deeply than an infant in its mother’s womb. How painfully distrust of My goodness 
wounds Me! Sins of distrust wound Me most painfully. 

1077 During Holy Mass, the Directress of Novices [Sister Callista 187] played a beautiful hymn 
about the mercy of God. I then asked the Lord to give her a deeper knowledge of the 
abyss of this inconceivable mercy. 

1078 + When I was saying good night to the Lord before retiring, I heard the words, Host, dear 
to My Heart, for your sake I bless the earth. 

1079 April 7, 1937. Today, when a certain person entered the chapel, I felt a terrible pain in my 
hands, my feet and my side, just as Jesus did during His Passion. This lasted only for a 
brief moment. But in this way I recognized a soul who was not in God’s grace. 

1080 On one occasion I saw the Holy Father reflecting about this matter [presumably the 
establishment of the Feast of the Divine Mercy]. 

1081 April 10, 1937. Today, Mother Superior gave me an article about The Divine Mercy to 
read, and with it there was also a reproduction of the image that had been painted. The 
article appeared in the Vilnius Weekly 188 and was sent to us in Cracow by Father Michael 
Sopocko, that zealous apostle of The Divine mercy. In this article are included words that 
the lord Jesus has spoken to me, some of them quoted verbatim. 

1082 When I took the issue of the Weekly into my hands, an arrow of love pierced my soul. - 

For the sake of your (22) ardent desires, I am hastening the Feast of Mercy. My 

spirit burst into such a powerful flame of love that it seemed to me that I was totally 
dissolved in God. 

1083 + That beautiful soul who is spreading this work of Divine Mercy throughout the world is, 
by his deep humility, very pleasing to God. 



254 




1084 Before every major grace, my soul undergoes a test of patience, for I feel the grace, but 
do not yet possess it. My spirit burns with impatience, but the hour has not yet come. 
These moments are so very extraordinary that it is difficult to describe them. 

1085 April 13, 1937. Today I must stay in bed all day. I had a violent fit of coughing, which left 
me so weak that I have no strength to walk. My spirit is eager to do God’s work, but 
physical strength has left me. I cannot penetrate Your actions at this moment, O Lord; 
therefore, I keep repeating with a loving act of the will: Do with me as You please. 

1086 Although the temptations are strong, a whole wave of doubts beats against my soul, and 
discouragement stands by, ready to enter into the act. The Lord, however, strengthens 
my will, against which all the attempts of the enemy are shattered as if against a rock. I 
see how many actual graces God grants me; these support me ceaselessly. I am very 
weak, and I attribute everything solely to the grace of God. 

1087 + When one day I resolved to practice a certain virtue, I lapsed into the vice opposed to 
that virtue ten times more frequently than on other days. In the evening, I was reflecting 
on why, today, I had lapsed so extraordinarily, and I heard the words: You were 
counting too much on yourself and too little on Me. And I understood the cause of 
my lapses. 

1088 (23) Sudden return of health. 

After I had written a letter to Father Sopocko on Sunday, April 11,1 suddenly became so 
very ill that I did not send that letter, but waited for a clear sign of God’s will. However, 
my health got so bad that I had to go to bed. The Coughing racked me so much that it 
seemed to me that, if this repeats a few more times, it will surely be the end of me. 

1089 On April 14, I felt so bad that I barely managed to get up to assist at Holy Mass. I felt 
much worse than I did at the time they sent me for treatment. There was wheezing, and 
there were rattling noises in my lungs and strange pains. When I received Holy 
Communion, I don’t know why, but it was as if something were urging me to this prayer, 
and I began to pray in this manner: “Jesus, may Your pure and healthy blood circulate in 
my ailing organism, and may Your pure and healthy body transform my weak body, and 
may a healthy and vigorous life throb within me, if it is truly Your holy will that I should set 
about the work in question; and this will be a clear sign of Your holy will for me.” 

As I was praying in this way, I suddenly felt as if something were jolting my whole 
organism and, in an instant, I felt completely well. My breath is clear, as if there had 
never been anything the matter with my lungs, and I feel no pain, and this is a sign for me 
that I should set about the work. 

1090 And this happened on the last day of my novena to the Holy Spirit. After this return to 
health, I found myself united with the Lord Jesus in a purely spiritual way. Jesus gave me 
strong assurances; that is, He confirmed me in respect to His demands. I remained close 
to the Lord Jesus all that day and talked with Him about the details concerning that 
congregation. 

(24) Jesus infused my soul with power and courage to act. Now I understand that if the 
Lord demands something of a soul, He gives it the means to carry it out, and through 



255 




grace He makes it capable of doing this. So, even if the soul be utterly miserable, at the 
Lord’s command it can undertake things beyond its expectation, because this is the sign 
by which it can be known that the Lord is with that soul: if God’s power and strength, 
which make the soul courageous and valiant, is manifest within it. As for myself, I am 
always at first a bit frightened at the Lord’s greatness, but afterwards my soul is filled with 
profound peace which nothing can disturb, as well as an inner strength to do what the 
Lord is demanding at that particular moment 

1091 Then I heard these words: Go tell the Superior that you are in good health. 

I neither know, nor ask how long I will remain in good health. I only know that I am 
enjoying good health at present. The future does not belong to me. I asked for this 
health as evidence of God’s will and not in order to seek relief from my suffering. 

1092 April 16, 1937. Today, as God’s Majesty swept over me, my soul understood that the 
Lord, so very great though He is, delights in humble souls. The more a soul humbles 
itself, the greater the kindness with which the Lord approaches it. Uniting himself closely 
with it, He raises it to His very throne. Happy is the soul whom the Lord himself defends. 

I have come to know that only love is of any value; love is greatness; nothing, no works, 
can compare with a single act of pure love of God. 

1 093 + O Jesus, shield me with Your mercy and also judge me leniently, or else Your justice 
may rightly damn me. 

1094 (25) April 17. Today, during a catechetical lecture [by Father Theodore 189 ], I was given a 
confirmation of what I had understood interiorly and lived by for quite some time; namely, 
that if a soul loves God sincerely and is intimately united with Him, then, even though 
such a soul may be living in the midst of difficult external circumstances, nothing can 
disturb its interior life; and in the midst of corruption, it can remain pure and unsullied; 
because the great love of God gives it strength for battle, and God also protects in a 
special way, even in a miraculous way, a soul that loves Him sincerely. 

1095 When, one day, God gave me the inner knowledge that I had never lost my innocence, 
and that despite all dangers in which I had found myself, He Himself had been guarding 
me so that the virginity of my soul and heart would remain intact, I spent the day in fervent 
interior thanksgiving. I thanked God that He had been pleased to protect me from evil, 
and also for this: That I had found favor in His eyes, that He Himself had given me 
assurance of this. 

1096 And a few years later, He deigned to confirm me in this grace, and since that time I have 
not experienced the rebellion of the senses against the soul. I have written this down in 
greater detail elsewhere in my diary [cf. paragraph no. 40]. As often as I recall this 
inconceivable grace, a fresh flame of love and gratitude to God bursts forth from my 
heart; and this same love leads me to complete forgetfulness of self. 

1097 Since that time, I have been living under the virginal cloak of the Mother of God. She has 
been guarding me and instructing me. I am quite at peace, close to Her Immaculate 
Heart. Because I am so weak and inexperienced, I nestle like a little child close to Her 
heart. 



256 




1098 Although God has confirmed me in this virtue, I am, however, constantly on the watch and 
fear even my own shadow, but this only because I have come to love God intensely. 

1099 (26) This grace from God was given to me precisely because I was the weakest of all 
people; this is why the Almighty has surrounded me with His special mercy. 

1 1 00 April 24. I can sense every major grace in advance; a strange longing and desire for God 
comes over me, and then I wait for the grace. And the greater the grace, the more 
distinct is the presentiment, and the fiercer is my struggle with the adversary of my 
salvation. 

My soul is sometimes in such a condition that I can only, describe it by means of a 
comparison: there are two great friends, and one of them is giving a great feast and has 
invited the other; both of them are looking forward to it; but the hour of the feast has been 
set. Well, the moments just before receiving the grace are so violent that it is difficult to 
describe them. They are marked by painful longing and the fire of love. I can feel the 
Lord is there, but I cannot be completely absorbed in Him, because the hour has been 
designated. Often, before such a moment of grace, I am utterly destitute in mind, will and 
heart. I am left all alone, and I wait for the One God. He Himself effects this in me before 
His coming. 

April 23, 1937. I have begun a three-day retreat today. 190 

1101 In the evening, I heard these words in my soul: My daughter, know that I shall speak 
to you in a special way through this priest [Father Plaza 191 ] so that you may not 
yield to doubt concerning My wishes. Already in the first meditation my soul was 
struck by the following words of the priest: I must not oppose /God’s will and God’s 
designs, whatever they might be; and as soon as I am convinced of the certitude and the 
authenticity of the will of God, I have the duty of carrying it out. No one can release me 
from this. Whatever (27) the will of God may be, once I have come to know it, I ought to 
carry it out. This is just a very short summary, but the whole meditation imprinted itself on 
my soul, and I have no doubts about anything. I know what God wants of me, and what I 
ought to do. 

1 1 02 There are, in my life, times and moments of spiritual insight; that is, divine illuminations, 
when the soul receives inward instruction about things it has not read in any book and 
has not been taught by any person. These are times of great inner knowledge which God 

himself imparts to the soul. These are great mysteries I often receive light and the 

knowledge of the interior life of God and of God’s intimate disposition, and this fills me 
with unutterable trust and a joy that I cannot contain within myself; I desire to dissolve 
completely in Him 

1103 + The quintessence of love is sacrifice and suffering. Truth wears a crown of thorns. 
Prayer involves the intellect, the will, and the emotions. 

1 1 04 Today there was a beautiful teaching [by Father Plaza] on the goodness and mercy of 
God. During this conference my soul experienced the flames of God’s love, and I 
understood that God’s word is a living word. 

1105 My particular examen is still the same; namely, union with the merciful Christ, and silence. 



257 




The flower which I lay at the feet of the Mother of God for May is my practice of silence. 

1 1 06 (28) + Virtue without prudence is not virtue at all. We should often pray to the Holy Spirit 

for this grace of prudence. Prudence consists in discretion, rational reflection and 
courageous resolution. The final decision is always up to us. We must decide; we can 
and we ought to seek advice and light 

1 1 07 Today during meditation, God gave me inner light and the understanding as to what 
sanctity is and of what it consists. Although I have heard these things many times in 
conferences, the soul understands them in a different way when it comes to know of them 
through the light of God which illumines it. 

Neither graces, nor revelations, nor raptures, nor gifts granted to a soul make it perfect, 
but rather the intimate union of the soul with God. These gifts are merely ornaments of 
the soul, but constitute neither its essence nor its perfection. My sanctity and perfection 
consist in the close union of my will with the will of God. God never violates our free will. 

It is up to us whether we want to receive God’s grace or not. It is up to us whether we will 
cooperate with it or waste it. 

1108 In the last evening conference, which was a preparation for the renewal of vows, Father 
was speaking about the happiness that flows from the three vows, and about the reward 
that comes from observing them faithfully. Suddenly, my soul was thrown into great 
interior darkness. My soul was filled with bitterness instead of joy, and my heart was 
pierced with a sharp pain. I felt so miserable and unworthy of this grace and, conscious 
of my misery and unworthiness, I would not have dared to so much as approach the feet 
of the youngest postulant to kiss them. I saw the postulants, in spirit, beautiful and 
pleasing to the Lord; and myself, an abyss of misery. After (29) the conference, I flung 
myself at the feet of the hidden God, midst tears and pain. I threw myself into the sea of 
God’s infinite mercy, and only there did I experience relief and feel that all of His 
omnipotent mercy was enveloping me. 

1109 + 30. This is the day for the renewal of vows. 

Immediately upon my awakening, God’s presence enveloped me, and I felt I was a child 
of God. Divine love was poured into my soul, and God gave me to see how everything 
depended on His will. He spoke these words to me: I want to grant a complete pardon 
to the souls that will go to Confession and receive Holy Communion on the Feast 
of My mercy. Then he said to me, My daughter, fear nothing. I am always with you, 
even if it seems to you that I am not. Your humility draws Me down from My lofty 
throne, and I unite Myself closely with you. 

1110 29 [April 1 937 ], The Lord gave me to know about the disputes 192 that were going on in 
the Vatican concerning this Feast. The dignitary Pacelli did much work on this. 

1111 Today is the renewal; that is, the profession of vows 193 in the course of a solemn 
celebration. As the sisters were making their vows, I heard angels singing in various 
tones, “Holy, Holy, Holy,” with chanting so delightful that no human tongue could ever 
match it. 



258 




1112 In the afternoon, I talked with my beloved Mother Directress of Novices, Mother Mary 
Joseph. We walked once around the garden, and I was able to have a talk with her, 
although it was a rather general one. She is ever the same beloved Mother Directress of 
Novices, although she is in fact no longer the directress, but a Superior, and it is already 
ten years since I pronounced my vows. She told me that it is impossible for a religious to 
live without the cross. However, she revealed to me a certain suffering which I had 
experienced in Warsaw, although I had never told her (30) about it. All the graces which I 
had received during the novitiate came back vividly before the eyes of my soul. Oh, how 
grateful I am to her! When my soul was plunged in darkness, and it seemed to me that I 
was damned, she wrenched me from that abyss by the power of obedience. 

1113 My soul is often burdened with suffering, and there is no human being who can 
understand these torments. 

1114 May 1 , 1 937. Today I felt the nearness of my Mother, my heavenly Mother, although 
before every Holy Communion I earnestly ask the Mother of God to help me prepare my 
soul for the coming of Her Son, and I clearly feel Her protection over me. I entreat Her to 
be so gracious as to enkindle in me the fire of God’s love, such as burned in Her own 
pure heart at the time of the Incarnation of the Word of God. 

1115 May 4. Today I went to see Mother General [Michael] for a moment and asked her, “Dear 
Mother, have you had nay inspiration regarding my leaving the convent?” Mother 
General answered, “Until the present, Sister, I have always restrained you, but now I 
leave you complete freedom to choose to do as you wish; you can leave the 
Congregation or you can stay.” So I answered, “Very well.” I thought of writing 
immediately to the Holy Father to ask him to release me from my vows. 194 When I had 
left Mother General, darkness once again descended upon my soul, as it had in the past. 

It is strange that, each time I ask permission to leave the Congregation, this darkness 
invades my soul, and I feel as though I have been left completely on my own. While 
experiencing this torment of the spirit, (31) I decided to go immediately to Mother and tell 
her about my strange torment and struggle. Mother answered, “That leaving of yours is a 
temptation.” After talking to her for a while I felt some relief, but the darkness persisted. 
“This Divine Mercy is a beautiful thing, and it must be a great work of the Lord, since 
Satan opposes it so much and wants to destroy it.” Such were the words of our beloved 
Mother General. 

1116 No one can understand or comprehend, nor can I myself describe, my torments. But 
there can be no sufferings greater than this. The sufferings of the martyrs are not greater 
because, at such times, death would be a relief for me. There is nothing to which I can 
compare these sufferings, this endless agony of the soul. 

1117 May 5, [1 937], Today, I opened up my soul somewhat in confession, because it occurred 
to me that perhaps this is the real temptation: that at the time I ask to be allowed to leave 
the Congregation I experience such great suffering and darkness. To this the confessor 
replied that perhaps it was not the time appointed by God. “You must pray and wait 
patiently, but it is true that great sufferings are in store for you. You will have to bear 
many sufferings and overcome many difficulties; that much is certain. It would be better 
to wait and to pray much for deeper knowledge and for divine light. These are grave 
matters.” 



259 




1118 My God! In these difficult moments my spiritual director [Father Andrasz] is away, for he 
has gone to Rome. Jesus, since You have taken him away from me, guide me Yourself, 
(32) because You alone know how much I can bear. I believe firmly that God cannot give 
me more than I can bear. I trust in His mercy. 

1119 In the moments when I am between heaven and earth, I keep silent, because even if I did 

speak, who would understand what I say? Eternity will reveal many things about which I 
am now silent 

1 1 20 When I went out into the garden, I saw how everything was breathing the joy of spring. 
The trees, adorned with flowers, gave off an intoxicating odor. Everything was throbbing 
with joy, and the birds were singing and chirping their adoration of God and said to me, 
“Rejoice and be happy, Sister Faustina”; but my soul remains in torment and darkness. 

My soul is so sensitive to the rustle of grace [that] it knows how to talk with all created 
things and with everything that surrounds me, and I know why God has adorned the earth 
in this way.... But my heart cannot be joyful because my Beloved has hidden Himself 
from me, and I will not rest until I find Him.... I do not know how to live without God, but I 
also feel that God, absolutely self-sufficient though He is, cannot be happy without me. . . . 

1121 May 6, [1937], The Ascension of Our Lord. 

Since early this morning, my soul has been touched by God. After Holy Communion, I 
communed for a while with the heavenly Father. My soul was drawn into the glowing 
center of love. I understood that no exterior works could stand comparison with pure love 

of God I saw the joy of the Incarnate Word, and I was immersed in the Divine Trinity. 

When I came to myself, longing filled my soul, and I yearned to be united (33) with God. 
Such tremendous love for the heavenly Father enveloped me that I call this day an 
uninterrupted ecstasy of love. The whole universe seemed to me like a tiny drop in 
comparison with God. There is no greater happiness than when God gives me to know 
interiorly that every beat of my heart is pleasing to Him, and when He shows me that He 
loves me in a special way. This strong inner conviction, by which God assures me of His 
love for me and of how much my soul pleases Him, brings deep peace to my soul. 
Throughout this day, I was unable to take any food; I felt gratified to the full with love. 

1 1 22 God of great mercy, who deigned to send us Your only-begotten Son as the greatest 
proof of Your fathomless love and mercy, You do not reject sinners; but in Your 
boundless mercy You have opened for them also Your treasures, treasures from which 
they can draw abundantly, not only justification, but also all the sanctity that a soul can 
attain. Father of great mercy, I desire that all hearts turn with confidence to Your infinite 
mercy. No one will be justified before You if he is not accompanied by Your 
unfathomable mercy. When You reveal the mystery of Your mercy to us, there will not be 
enough of eternity to properly thank You for it. 

1123 Oh, how sweet it is to have in the depth of one’s soul that which the Church tells us we 
must believe. When my soul is immersed in love, I solve the most intricate questions 
clearly and quickly. Only love is able to cross over precipices and mountain peaks. Love, 
once again, love. 



260 




1 1 24 (34) + 1 2 [May 1 937], A strange darkness sometimes invades my intellect. I am 
submerged in nothingness against my will. 

1 1 25 May 20, 1 937. When for a whole month I had been enjoying good health, it occurred to 
me that I did not know which was more pleasing to the Lord - my serving Him in illness or 
in the robust health for which I had asked Him - and I said to the Lord, “Jesus, do with me 
as You please,” and Jesus returned me to my previous condition. 

1 1 26 Oh, how sweet it is to live in a convent among sisters, but I must not forget that these 
angels are in human bodies. 

1127 On one occasion, I saw Satan hurrying about and looking for someone among the sisters, 
but he could find no one. I felt an interior inspiration to command him in the Name of God 
to confess to me what he was looking for among the sisters. And he confessed, though 
unwillingly, “I am looking for idle souls [cf. Si. 33:28; Pr. 12:11].” When I commanded him 
again in the Name of God to tell me to which souls in religious life he has the easiest 
access, he said, again unwillingly, “To lazy and idle souls.” I took note of the fact that, at 
present, there were no such souls in this house. Let the toiling and tired souls rejoice. 

1 1 28 May 22, 1 937. The heat is so intense today that it is difficult to bear. We are all thirsting 
for rain, and still it does not come. For several days the sky has been overcast, but there 
is no rain. When I looked at (35) the plants, thirsting for the rain I was moved with pity, 
and I decided to say the chaplet until the Lord would send us rain. Before supper, the sky 
covered over with clouds, and a heavy rain fell on the earth. I had been saying this 
prayer without interruption for three hours. And the Lord let me know that everything can 
be obtained by means of this prayer. 

[May] 23. The Feast of the Most Holy Trinity. 

1 1 29 During Holy Mass, I found myself suddenly united with the Most Holy T rinity. I recognized 
His majesty and greatness. I was united to the Three Persons. And once I was united to 
One of these Most Venerable Persons, I was, at the same time, united to the other Two 
Persons. The joy and happiness that my soul felt is beyond description. It grieves me 
that I am unable to put down in words that which has no words. 

1130 I heard these words: Tell the Superior General to count on you as the most faithful 
daughter in the Order. 195 

1 1 31 After these words, I received an inner understanding of what all created things are before 

God. Immense and incomprehensible is His majesty. And that He condescends toward 
us, is the abyss of His mercy 

1 1 32 All things will have an end in this vale of tears, 

Tears will run dry and pain will cease. 

Only one thing will remain — - 
Love for You, O Lord. 

All things will have an end in this exile, 

The ordeals and wilderness of the soul. 

And though she live in perpetual agony, 



261 




If God is with her, nothing can shake her. 

1 1 33 ( 36 ) 27 [May 1 937], Corpus Christi. 

During prayer, I heard these words: My daughter, let your heart be filled with joy. I, the 
Lord, am with you. Fear nothing. You are in My heart. At that moment, I knew the great 
majesty of God, and I understood that nothing could be compared with one single 
perception of God. Outward greatness dwindles like a speck of dust before one act of a 
deeper knowledge of God. 

1 1 34 The Lord has poured such a depth of peace into my soul that nothing will disturb it any 
more. Despite everything that goes on around me, I am not deprived of my peace for a 
moment. Even if the whole world were crumbling, it would not disturb the depth of the 
silence which is within me and in which God rests. All events, all the various things which 
happen are under His foot. 

1 1 35 This deeper knowledge of God gives me full liberty and spiritual freedom, and nothing can 
disturb my close union with Him, not even the angelic powers. I feel that I am great when 

I am united to God. What happiness it is to have the consciousness of God in one’s heart 
and to live in close intimacy with Him. 

1136 When the procession from Borek 196 came to our house, carrying Him who was to be 

reposed in our chapel, I heard a voice coming from the Host: Here is My repose. During 
Benediction, Jesus gave me to know that soon a solemn moment would take place on 
this very spot. I am pleased to rest in your heart and nothing will stop Me from 
granting your graces. This greatness of God floods my soul, and I drown in Him, I lose 
myself in Him, I am melting away in Him 

1137 (37) May 30, [1937], I am dying of yearning for God today. This longing fills all my soul. 
How very much I feel I am in exile. O Jesus, when will the longed-for moment come? 

1138 May 31. My tormented soul finds aid nowhere but in You, O Living Host. I place all my 
trust in Your merciful heart. I am waiting patiently for Your word, Lord. 

1 1 39 Oh, what pain it causes my heart when I see a nun who has not the religious spirit! How 
can one be pleasing to God when one is inflated with pride and self-love under the 
pretense of striving for God’s glory, while in fact one is seeking one’s own glory? When I 
see such a thing, it gives me very great pain. How can such a soul be united closely with 
God? Union with the Lord is out of the question here. 

1 1 40 June 1 , 1 937. Today, the Corpus Christi procession 197 took place. At the first altar, a 
flame issued from the Host and pierced my heart, and I heard a voice, Here is My 
resting place. Ardor burst into flame in my heart. I felt that I am transformed completely 
into Him. 

1141 In the evening, He gave me to understand how fleeting all earthly things are, and [how] 
everything that appears great disappears like smoke, and does not give the soul freedom, 
but weariness. Happy the soul that understands these things and with only one foot 
touches the earth. My repose is to be united with You; everything else tires me. Oh, how 



262 




much I feel I am in exile! I see that no one understands my interior life. You alone 
understand me, You who are hidden in my heart and yet are eternally alive. 

1142 (38) June 4. Today is the Feast of the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus. During Holy Mass, I 
was given the knowledge of the Heart of Jesus and of the nature of the fire of love with 
which He burns for us and of how He is an Ocean of Mercy. Then I heard a voice: 

Apostle of My mercy, proclaim to the whole world My unfathomable mercy. Do not 
be discouraged by the difficulties you encounter in proclaiming My mercy. These 
difficulties that affect you so painfully are needed for your sanctification and as 
evidence that this work is Mine. My daughter, be diligent in writing down every 
sentence I tell you concerning My mercy, because this is meant for a great number 
of souls who will profit from it. 

1143 + During Adoration, the Lord gave me a deeper knowledge of matters connected with this 
work. 

1 1 44 Today, I asked the Lord’s pardon for all the offenses committed in our convents from 
which His divine Heart suffers. 

1145 + June 6, [1 937], First Sunday of the month. Today I made my monthly retreat. 

A light from the morning meditation: Whatever You do with me, Jesus, I will always love 
You, for I am Yours. Little matter whether You leave me here or put me somewhere else; 

I am always Yours. 

It is with love that I abandon myself to Your most wise decrees, O God, and Your will, O 
Lord, is my daily nourishment. You, who know the beatings of my heart, know that it 
beats for You alone, my Jesus. Nothing can quench my longing for You. I am dying for 
You, Jesus. When will You take me into Your dwelling place [cf. Jn. 1 4:1 -3]? 

1 1 46 (39) Let the greatest sinners place their trust in My mercy. They have the right 

before others to trust in the abyss of My mercy. My daughter, write about My 
mercy towards tormented souls. Souls that make an appeal to My mercy delight 
Me. To such souls I grant even more graces than they ask. I cannot punish even 
the greatest sinner if he makes an appeal to My compassion, but on the contrary, I 
justify him in My unfathomable and inscrutable mercy. Write: before I come as a 
just Judge, I first open wide the door of My mercy. He who refuses to pass through 
the door of My mercy must pass through the door of My justice 

1 1 47 When once I felt hurt because of a certain thing and complained to the Lord, Jesus 
answered, My daughter, why do you attach such importance to the teaching and the 
talk of people? I Myself want to teach you; that is why I arrange things so that you 
cannot attend those conferences. In a single moment, I will bring you to know 
more than others will acquire through many years of toil. 

1148 June 20, [1937], We resemble God most when we forgive our neighbors. God is Love, 
Goodness, and Mercy.... 

Every soul, and especially the soul of every religious, should reflect My mercy. My 
Heart overflows with compassion and mercy for all. The heart of My beloved must 



263 




resemble Mine; from her heart must spring the fountain of My mercy for souls; 
otherwise I will not acknowledge her as Mine. 

1 1 49 (40) + On several occasions, I have learned how some religious defend their own glory 
under the pretext of being concerned for the glory of God, whereas it is not a question of 
the glory of God, but of glory of self. O Jesus, how painful this has been for me! What 
secrets the day of Your judgment will bring to light! How can one steal God’s gifts? 

1 1 50 Today, I experienced a good deal of sorrow because of a certain person, a lay person, 
that is. On the basis of one true thing, she said many things which were fictitious. And 
because they were taken to be true and spread around the whole house, when the news 
reached my ears, my heart felt a twinge of pain. How can one abuse the goodness of 
others like that? But I resolved not to say a word in my defense and to show even greater 
kindness toward that person. I became aware, however, that I was not strong enough to 
bear this calmly, because the matter lingered on for weeks. When I saw the storm 
building up and the wind beginning to blow sand straight into my eyes, I went before the 
Blessed Sacrament and said to the Lord, “Lord Jesus, I ask You to give me the strength 
of Your actual grace, because I feel that I will not manage to survive this struggle. Shield 
me with Your breast.” 

Then I heard the words, Do not fear; I am with you. When I left the altar, an 
extraordinary peace and power filled my soul, and the storm that was raging broke 
against my soul as against a rock; and the foam of the storm fell on those who had raised 
it. Oh, how good is the Lord, who will reward each one according to his deed! Let every 
soul beg for the help of actual grace, as sometimes ordinary grace is not enough. 

1151 (41) + When pain overwhelms my soul, 

And the horizon darkens like night, 

And the heart is torn with the torment of suffering, 

Jesus Crucified, You are my strength. 

When the soul, dimmed with pain, 

Exerts itself in battle without respite, 

And the heart is in agony and torment, 

Jesus Crucified, You are the hope of my salvation. 

And so the days pass, 

As the soul bathes in a sea of bitterness, 

And the heart dissolves in tears, 

Jesus Crucified, you shine for me like the dawn. 

And when the cup of bitterness brims over, 

And all things conspire against her, 

And the soul goes down to the Garden of Olives, 

Jesus Crucified, in You is my defense. 

When the soul, conscious of its innocence, 

Accepts these dispensations from God, 

The heart can then repay hurts with love. 

Jesus Crucified, transform my weakness into omnipotence. 



264 




1152 It is no easy thing to bear sufferings joyfully, especially those which are unmerited. Fallen 
nature rebels, and although the intellect and will are above suffering, because they are 
able to do good to those who inflict suffering on them, nevertheless the emotions raise a 
lot of noise and, like restless spirits, attack the intellect and will. But when they see they 
cannot do anything by themselves, they quiet down and submit to the intellect and will. 
Like some kind of hideousness, ( 42 ) they rush in and stir up a row, bent on making one 
obey them alone so long as they are not curbed by the intellect and will. 

1153 June 23, [1937], As I was praying before the Most Blessed Sacrament, my physical 
sufferings ceased suddenly, and I heard this voice in my soul: You see, I can give you 
everything in one moment. I am not constrained by any law. 

June 24. After Holy Communion, I heard these words: Know, My daughter, that in one 
moment I can give you everything that is needed for the fulfillment of this task. 

After these words, an extraordinary light remained in my soul, and all God’s demands 
seemed to me to be so simple that even a little child could carry them out. 

1 1 54 [June] 27. Today, I saw the convent of the new Congregation. It was a large ad spacious 
building. I went from room to room, observing everything, I saw that God’s Providence 
had provided for all that was necessary. The persons living in this convent were still 
wearing lay clothes, but a thoroughly religious spirit reigned there, and I was organizing 
everything just as the Lord wanted. All of a sudden, I heard a rebuke from one of our 
sisters, “Sister, how can you carry out such works?” I answered that it was not I, but the 
Lord working through me, and that I had the authorization for everything. During Mass, I 
received light and profound understanding concerning this whole work, and not a shadow 
of a doubt remained in my soul. 

1 1 55 (43) The Lord gave me knowledge of His will under three aspects, so to speak, but it all 
comes down to one. 198 

The first is that souls separated from the world will bum as an offering before God’s 
throne and beg for mercy for the whole world.... And by their entreaties they will obtain 
blessings for priests, and through their prayers prepare the world for the final coming of 
Jesus. 

1 1 56 The second is prayer joined to the act of mercy. In particular, they will defend the souls of 
children against the spirit of evil. Prayer and merciful deeds are all that will be required of 
these souls, and even the poorest persons can be admitted to their number. And in this 
egoistic world they will try to rouse up love, the mercy of Jesus. 

1 1 57 The third is prayer and deeds of mercy, without any obligation of taking vows. But by 
doing this, these persons will have a share in all the merits and privileges of the whole 
[congregation]. Everyone in the world can belong to this group. 

1158 A member of this group ought to perform at least one act of mercy a day; at least one, but 
there can be many more, for such deeds can easily be carried out by anyone, even the 
very poorest. For there are three ways of performing an act of mercy: the merciful word, 
by forgiving and by comforting; secondly, if you can offer no word, then pray - that too is 



265 




mercy; and thirdly, deeds of mercy. And when the Last Day comes, we shall be judged 
from this, and on this basis we shall receive the eternal verdict. 

1 1 59 God’s floodgates have been opened for us. Let us want to take advantage of them before 
the day of God’s justice arrives. And that will be a dreadful day! 

1 1 60 (44) When once I asked the Lord Jesus how He could tolerate so many sins and crimes 
and not punish them, the Lord answered me, I have eternity for punishing [these], and 

so I am prolonging the time of mercy for the sake of [sinners]. But woe to them if 
they do not recognize this time of My visitation. My daughter, secretary of My 
mercy, your duty is not only to write about and proclaim My mercy, but also to beg 
for this grace for them, so that they too may glorify My mercy. 

1 1 61 Today, my soul suffered such agony that I began to complain to the Lord Jesus, “Jesus, 
how can You leave me alone? I cannot take even one step forward by myself. You have 
taken my confessor away, and You Yourself are hiding from me. Surely, You know, 
Jesus, that of myself I know nothing but how to waste Your graces. Jesus, You must 
arrange things so that Father Andrasz will return.” But the anguish persisted. 

1162 It occurred to me to go to some priest and tell him of my anguish as well as some various 
inspirations, that he might resolve them for me; and I shared this idea with Mother 
Superior [Irene], Mother replied, “I understand, Sister, that you are going through a 
difficult time, but at present, I really do not know of any priest who would be suitable for 
you. At any rate, Father Andrasz will be returning soon. So, for now, go and tell 
everything to the lord Jesus.” 

1163 When I went to talk with the Lord for a while, I heard a voice in my soul: My - I will not 
give you the grace to reveal yourself to someone else, and even if you did bare 
yourself, I will not give that priest the grace needed to understand you. At this 
time, it is My desire that you put up with yourself patiently. (45) My daughter, it is 
not My will that you should tell everybody about the gifts I have granted you. I 
have entrusted you to the care of the friend of My Heart, and under his direction 
your soul will bloom. I have given him light to recognize My life in your soul. 

1164 My daughter, when I was before Herod, I obtained a grace for you; namely, that you 
would be able to rise above human scorn and follow faithfully in My footsteps. Be 
silent when they do not want to acknowledge your truth, because it is then that you 
speak more eloquently. 

1 1 65 Know this, My daughter: if you strive for perfection you will sanctify many souls; 
and if you do not strive for sanctity, by the same token, many souls will remain 
imperfect. Know that their perfection will depend on your perfection, and the 
greater part of the responsibility for these souls will fall on you. 

1 1 66 Then He said to me, Do not fear, My child; but remain faithful only to My grace 

1 1 67 Satan has admitted to me that I am the object of his hatred. He said that “a thousand 
souls do me less harm than you do when you speak of the great mercy of the Almighty 
One. The greatest sinners regain confidence and return to God, and I lose everything. 

But what is more, you persecute me personally with that unfathomable mercy of the 



266 




Almighty One.” I took note of the great hatred Satan has for the Mercy of God. He does 
not want to acknowledge that God is good. 

1 1 68 (46) June 29, 1 937. During breakfast today, Father Andrasz greeted the whole 
community by telephone. He is already back [from Rome], and this very afternoon he 
came to see us. The professed sisters, the novices, and both groups of students 
assembled in the quadrangle [the girls’ playground in front of the building] and waited for 
our dear Father. The children welcomed him with songs and poems, and then we asked 
him to tell us about Rome and the many beautiful things he had seen there. Ho spoke for 
over two hours and, because of this, there was no time left to talk in private. 

1169 Today, my soul entered into close union with the Lord. He made known to me how I 
should always abandon myself to His holy will: In one moment, I can give you more 
than you are able to desire. 

1170 June 30, 1937. Today, the Lord said to me, I have wanted to exalt this Congregation 
many times, but I am unable to do so because of its pride. Know, My daughter, that 
I do not grant My graces to proud souls, and I even take away from them the graces 
I have granted. 

1171 Today Sister Jolanta 199 asked me to make an agreement with her; she will pray for me, 
and I am to pray for the girls in her class in Vilnius. As for me, I always pray for our work, 
but I have resolved to pray for the class in Vilnius for two months, and Sister Jolanta will 
say three Hail Marys to the Incarnate Word every day for the intention that I might profit 
from God’s grace. Our friendship has deepened. 

1172 (47) July 1 , 1937. The month of July. 

Today during the Angelus, the Lord gave me an understanding of God’s 
incomprehensible love for people. He lifts us up to His very Godhead. His only motives 
are love and fathomless mercy. Though You make known the mystery to us through an 
angel, You Yourself carry it out. 

1173 In spite of the profound peace my soul is enjoying, I am struggling continuously, and it is 
often a hard-fought battle for me to walk faithfully along my path; that is, the path which 
the Lord Jesus wants me to follow. And my path is to be faithful to the will of God in all 
things and at all times, especially by being faithful to inner inspirations in order to be a 
receptive instrument in God’s hands for the carrying out of the work of His fathomless 
mercy. 

1174 (48) July 4, 1937. First Sunday of the month. 

Monthly retreat. 

This evening, I prepared with great care and prayed long to the Holy Spirit that that He 
might deign to grant me His light and take me under His special guidance; [I prayed] also 
to Our Lady, to my Guardian Angel, and to our patron saints. 200 

1175 Fruit of the meditation. 



267 




Whatever Jesus did, He did well. He went along, doing good. His manner was full of 
goodness and mercy. His steps were guided by compassion. Toward His enemies He 
showed goodness, kindness, and understanding, and to those in need help and 
consolation. 

I have resolved to mirror faithfully these traits of Jesus in myself during this month, even if 
this costs me much. 

1 1 76 During Adoration, I heard a voice in my soul: These efforts of yours, My daughter, are 
pleasing to Me; they are the delight of My Heart. I see every movement of your 
heart with which you worship Me. 

1177 Particular examen. 

Continuation of the same: to unite myself with the merciful Christ. For the sake of His 
sorrowful Passion, I will entreat the heavenly Father for the whole world. A point of the 
rule: strict observance of silence. 

I must probe the depth of my being and thank God for everything, uniting myself with 
Jesus. With Him, in Him, and through Him, I give glory to God. 

1 1 78 (49) O Lord, my Love, I thank You for this day on which You have allowed me to draw a 
wealth of graces from the fountain of Your unfathomable mercy. O Jesus, not only today, 
but at every moment, I draw from Your unfathomable mercy everything that the soul and 
body could want. 

1 1 79 July 7, 1 937. In times o doubt; that is, when the soul is weak, let it ask Jesus Himself to 
act. Although it knows that it should act by the grace of God, nevertheless, at certain 
times, it is better for it to leave all action to God. 

1180 June [July] 15, 1937. Once, I learned that I was to be transferred to another house. My 
knowledge of this was purely interior. At the same time, I heard a voice in my soul: Do 

not be afraid, My daughter; it is My will that you should remain here. Human plans 
will be thwarted, since they must conform to My will. 

1 1 81 When I was close to the Lord, He said to me, Why are you afraid to begin the work 
which I have commanded you to carry out? “Why do You leave me on my own at 
such times, Jesus, and why do I not feel Your presence?” My daughter, even though 
you do not perceive Me in the most secret depths of your heart, you still cannot say 
that I am not there. I only remove from you the awareness of My presence, and that 
should not be an obstacle to the carrying out of My will. I do this to achieve My 
unfathomable ends, which you will know of later on. My daughter, know without 
doubt, and once and for all, that only mortal sin drives Me out of a soul, and 
nothing else. 

1 1 82 ( 50 ) + Today the Lord said to me, My daughter, My pleasure and delight, nothing will 
stop me from granting you graces. Your misery does not hinder my mercy. My 
daughter, write that the greater the misery of a soul, the greater its right to My 
mercy; [urge] all souls to trust in the unfathomable abyss of My mercy, because I 



268 




want to save them all. On the cross, the fountain of My mercy was opened wide by 
the lance for all souls - no one have I excluded! 

1183 O Jesus, I want to live in the present moment, to live as if this were the last day of my life. 

I want to use every moment scrupulously for the greater glory of God, to use every 
circumstance for the benefit of my soul. I want to look upon everything, from the point of 
view that nothing happens without the will of God. 

God of unfathomable mercy, embrace the whole world and pour Youself out upon us 
through the merciful Heart of Jesus. 

1184 On an earlier occasion. 

In the evening, I saw the Lord Jesus upon the cross. From His hands, feet, and side the 
Most Sacred Blood was flowing. After some time, Jesus said to me, All this is for the 

salvation of souls. Consider well, My daughter, what you are doing for their 
salvation. I answered, “Jesus, when I look at Your suffering, I see that I am doing next to 
nothing for the salvation of souls.” And the Lord said to me, Know, My daughter, that 
your silent day-to-day martyrdom in complete submission to My will ushers many 
souls into heaven. And when it seems to you that your suffering exceeds your 
strength, contemplate My wounds, (51) and you will rise above human scorn and 
judgment. Meditation on My passion will help you rise above all things. I 
understood many things I had been unable to comprehend before. 

1 1 85 July 9, 1 937. This evening, one of the deceased sisters came and asked me for one day 
of fasting and to offer all my [spiritual] exercises on that day for her. I answered that I 
would. 

1 1 86 From early morning on the following day, I offered everything for her intention. During 
Holy Mass, I had a brief experience of her torment. I experienced such intense hunger for 
God that I seemed to be dying of the desire to become united with Him. This lasted only 
a short time, but I understood what the longing of the souls in purgatory was like. 

1187 Immediately after Holy Mass, I asked Mother Superior’s permission to fast, but I did not 
receive it because of my illness. When I entered the chapel, I heard these words: “If you 
had fasted, Sister, I would not have gotten relief until the evening, but for the sake of your 
obedience, which prevented you from fasting, I obtained this relief at once. Obedience 
has great power.” After these words I heard: “May God reward you.” 

1188 I often pray for Poland, but I see that God is very angry with it because of its 
ingratitude. 201 I exert all the strength of my soul to defend it. I constantly remind God of 
the promises of His mercy. When I see His anger, I throw myself trustingly into the abyss 
of His mercy, and I plunge all Poland in it, and then He cannot use His justice. My 
country, how much you cost me! There is no day in which I do not pray for you. 

1 1 89 (52) (A sentence from Saint Vincent de Paul: “The Lord always sets His hand to a task 
when He removes all human means and orders us to do a thing that exceeds our 
strength.”) 



269 




1190 + Jesus. - From all My wounds, like from streams, mercy flows for souls, but the 
wound in My Heart is the fountain of unfathomable mercy. From this fountain 
spring all graces for souls. The flames of compassion burn Me. I desire greatly to 
pour them out upon souls. Speak to the whole world about My mercy. 

1191 As long as we live, the love of God grows in us. Until we die, we ought to strive for the 
love of God. I have learned and experienced that souls living in love are distinguished in 
this: that they are greatly enlightened concerning the things of God, both in their own 
souls and in the souls of others. And simple souls, without an education, are outstanding 
for their knowledge. 

1192 At the fourteenth station. I get the strange feeling that Jesus is going into the ground. 

When my soul is in anguish, I think only in this way: Jesus is good and full of mercy, and 
even if the ground were to give way under my feet, I would not cease to trust in Him. 

1 1 93 Today, I have heard these words: My daughter, delight of My heart, it is with pleasure 
that I look into your soul. I bestow many graces only because of you. I also 
withhold My punishments only because of you. You restrain Me, and I cannot 
vindicate the claims of My justice. You bind My hands with your love. 

1 1 94 (53) July 1 3, 1 937. Today, Jesus has given me light as to how I should behave toward 
one of the sisters, who had asked me about many spiritual matters concerning which she 
had doubts. But basically this was not the question; she only wanted to find out my 
opinion in these matters in order to have something to say about me to the other sisters. 
Oh, if at least she had repeated the same words that I had spoken to her without 
distortions and additions! Jesus put me on my guard in respect to her. I resolved to pray 
for her, because only prayer can enlighten that soul. 

1195 O my Jesus, nothing can lower my ideals, that is, the love which I have for You. Although 
the path is very thorny, I do not fear to go ahead. Even if a hailstorm of persecutions 
covers me; even if my friends forsake me, even if all things conspire against me, and the 
horizon grows dark; even if a raging storm breaks out, and I feel I am quite alone and 
must brave it all; still, fully at peace, I will trust in Your mercy. O my God, and my hope 
will not be disappointed. 

1 1 96 Today, when a certain sister who was on duty approached me in the refectory [the sisters’ 
dining room, where assigned sisters serve at the time of common meals], I experienced 
severe suffering in the places of the Wounds. I was given to know the state of her soul. I 
prayed much for her. 

1 1 97 Sudden calming of a storm. There was a terrible storm last night. I bowed my face low to 
the ground and started to say the Litany of the Saints. Towards the end of the Litany, 
such drowsiness came over me that I could in no way finish the prayer. Then I got up and 
said to the Lord, “Jesus, (54) calm the storm, for Your child is unable to pray any longer, 
and I am heavy with sleep.” After these words, I threw the window wide open, not even 
securing it with hooks. Sister N. [probably sister Fabiola Pawluk] then said to me, “Sister, 
what are you doing! The wind will surely tear the window loose!” I told her to sleep in 
peace, and at once the storm completely subsided. The next day, the sisters talked about 



270 




the sudden calming of the storm, not knowing what this meant. I said nothing, but I 
merely thought within myself: Jesus and little Faustina know what it means 

1 1 98 The 20 th [of July, 1 937], I learned today that I am to go to Rabka. 202 I was not to leave 
until August 5, but I asked Mother Superior [Irene] to let me go at once. I have not seen 
Father Andrasz at all, and I asked her to let me leave as soon as possible. Mother 
Superior was a little surprised that I wanted to leave so soon, but I did not explain the 
reason for my wanting to do so. That will remain a secret forever. In these 
circumstances, I have made one resolution which I am going to keep. 

1 1 99 [July] 29. I am to leave for Rabka today. I went into the chapel and asked the Lord Jesus 

for a safe journey. But within my soul there was silence and darkness. I felt I was all 

alone and had no one [to turn to]. I asked Jesus to be with me. Than I felt a tiny ray of 
light in my soul as a sign that Jesus was with me but, after this grace, the darkness and 
shadows in my soul increased. Then I said “Your will be done, for everything is possible 
to You.” When I was on the train and gazed through the window at the beautiful 
countryside and the mountains, the torments of my soul grew even greater. As the sisters 
welcomed me and began to surround me with their warmth, my sufferings redoubled. 

1 200 I would have liked to hide and rest for a while in solitude, in a word, (55) to be alone. At 

such moments, no creature is capable of giving me comfort, and even if I had wanted to 
say something about myself, I would have experienced new anguish. Therefore, I have 
kept silent at such moments and submitted myself, in silence, to the will of God - and that 
has given me relief. I demand nothing from creatures and communicate with them only in 
so far as is necessary. I will not take them into my confidence unless this is for the 
greater glory of god. My communing is with the angels [cf. Mt. 18:10; Ex. 23:20]. 

1201 I feel so unwell here, however, that I am obliged to stay in bed. I feel strange sharp pains 

all through my chest; I cannot even move my hand. One night, I had to lie quite 
motionless, as it seemed to me that if I budged, everything in my lungs would tear. The 
night was endless. I united myself to Jesus Crucified, and I implored the heavenly Father 
on behalf of sinners. It is said that maladies of the lungs do not cause such sharp pains, 
but I suffer these sharp pains constantly. My health has deteriorated so much here that I 
must remain in bed, and Sister N. [probably Sister Helen 203 ] says I will not improve, 
because the climate of Rabka is not good for every sick person. 

1202 I could not even go to Holy Mass or receive Holy Communion today but, amidst the 
sufferings of body and soul, I kept on repeating, “May the Lord’s will be done. I know that 
Your bounty is without limit.” Then I heard an angel who sang out my whole life history 
and everything it comprised. I was surprised, but also strengthened. 

1203 Saint Joseph urged me to have a constant devotion to him. He himself told me to recite 
three prayers [the Our Father, Hail Mary, and Glory be] and the Memorare 204 once every 
day. He looked at me with great kindness and gave me to know how much he is 
supporting this work [of mercy]. He has promised me this special help and protection. I 
recite the requested prayers every day and feel his special protection. 

(56) August 1, 1937. One-day retreat. 



271 




1204 A retreat of suffering. O Jesus, in these days of suffering, I am not capable of any kind of 
prayer. The oppression of my body and soul has increased. O my Jesus, You do see 
that Your child is on the decline. I am not forcing myself further, but simply submitting my 
will to the will of Jesus. O Jesus, You are always Jesus to me. 

1205 When I went to confession, I did not even know how to confess. However, the priest 
[probably Father Casimir Ratkiewicz 205 ] recognized the condition of my soul at once and 
said to me, “Despite everything, you are on the way to salvation; you are on the right 
path, but God may leave your soul in this darkness and obscurity until death, and the 
former light may never return. But in all things abandon yourself to the will of God.” 

1206 Today, I started a novena to Our Lady of the Assumption for three intentions: first, that I 
may see the Reverend Dr. Sopocko; second, that God would hasten this work; and third, 
for the intention of my country. 

1207 August 10. Today I am returning to Cracow, in the company of one of the sisters. My 
soul is shrouded in suffering. I am continually uniting myself to Him by an act of the will. 
He is my power and strength. 

1208 May You be blessed, O God, for everything You send me. Nothing under the sun 
happens without Your will. I cannot penetrate Your secrets with regard to myself, but I 
press my lips to the chalice you offer me. 

1209 (57) Jesus, I trust in You. 

Novena to The Divine Mercy 206 

Which Jesus instructed me to write down and make before the Feast of Mercy. It begins 
on Good Friday. 

I desire that during these nine days you bring souls to the fountain of My mercy, 
that they may draw therefrom strength and refreshment and whatever grace they 
need in the hardships of life, and especially at the hour of death. 

On each day you will bring to My Heart a different group of souls, and you will 
immerse them in this ocean of My mercy, and I will bring all these souls into the 
house of My Father. You will do this in this life and in the next. I will deny nothing 
to any soul whom you will bring to the fount of My mercy. On each day you will 
beg My Father, on the strength of My bitter Passion, for graces for these souls. 

I answered, “Jesus, I do not know how to make this novena or which souls to bring first 
into Your Most Compassionate heart.” Jesus replied that He would tell me which souls to 
bring each day into His Heart. 

First Day 

1210 Today, bring to Me all mankind, especially all sinners, and immerse them in the 
ocean of My mercy. In this way you will console Me in the bitter grief into which 
the loss of souls plunges Me. 



272 




121 1 Most Merciful Jesus, whose very nature it is to have compassion on us and to forgive us, 
do not look upon our sins but upon our trust which (58) we place in Your infinite 
goodness. Receive us all into the abode of Your Most Compassionate Heart, and never 
let us escape from it. We beg this of You by Your love which unites You to the Father 
and the Holy Spirit. 

Oh omnipotence of Divine Mercy, 

Salvation of sinful people, 

You re a sea of mercy and compassion; 

You aid those who entreat You with humility. 

Eternal Father, turn Your merciful gaze upon all mankind and especially upon poor 
sinners, all enfolded in the Most Compassionate heart of Jesus. For the sake of His 
sorrowful Passion, show us Your mercy, that we may praise the omnipotence of Your 
mercy forever and ever. Amen. 

Second Day 

121 2 Today bring to me the souls of priests and religious, and immerse them in My 
unfathomable mercy. It was they who gave Me the strength to endure My bitter 
Passion. Through them, as through channels, My mercy flows out upon mankind. 

121 3 Most Merciful Jesus, from whom comes all that is good, increase Your grace in us, that 
we may perform worthy works of mercy, and that all who see them may glorify the Father 
of Mercy who is in heaven. 

The Fountain of God’s love 
Dwells in pure hearts, 

Bathed in the Sea of Mercy, 

Radiant as stars, bright as the dawn. 

Eternal Father, turn Your merciful gaze (59) upon the company [of chosen ones] in Your 
vineyard - upon the souls of priests and religious; and endow them with the strength of 
Your blessing. For the love of the Heart of your Son in which they are enfolded, impart to 
them Your power and light, that they may be able to guide others in the way of salvation, 
and with one voice sing praise to Your boundless mercy for ages without end. Amen. 

Third Day 

1214 Today bring to Me all devout and faithful souls, and immerse them in the ocean of 
My mercy. These souls brought Me consolation on the Way of the Cross. They 
were that drop of consolation in the midst of an ocean of bitterness. 

121 5 Most Merciful Jesus, from the treasury of Your mercy You impart Your graces in great 
abundance to each and all. Receive us into the abode of Your Most Compassionate 
Heart and never let us escape from it. We beg this of You by that most wondrous love for 
the heavenly Father with which Your Heart burns so fiercely. 

The miracles of mercy are impenetrable. 

Neither the sinner nor just one will fathom them. 



273 




When You cast upon us an eye of pity, 

You draw us all closer to Your love. 

Eternal Father, turn Your merciful gaze upon faithful souls, as upon the inheritance of 
your Son. For the sake of His sorrowful Passion, grant them Your blessing and surround 
them with Your constant protection. Thus may they never fail in love or lose the treasure 
of the holy faith, but rather, with all the hosts of Angels and Saints, may they glorify your 
boundless mercy for endless ages. Amen. 

( 60 ) Fourth Day 

121 6 Today bring to Me the pagans and those who do not yet know Me. I was thinking 
also of them during My bitter Passion, and their future zeal comforted My Heart. 
Immerse them in the ocean of My mercy. 

121 7 Most compassionate Jesus, You are the Light of the whole world. Receive into the abode 
of Your Most Compassionate Heart the souls of pagans who as yet do not know You. Let 
the rays of Your grace enlighten them that they, too, together with us, may extol Your 
wonderful mercy; and do not let them escape from the abode which is Your Most 
Compassionate Heart. 

May the light of Your love 
Enlighten the souls in darkness; 

Grant that these souls will know You 
And, together with us, praise Your mercy. 

Eternal Father, turn Your merciful gaze upon the souls of pagans and of those who as yet 
do not know You, but who are enclosed in the Most Compassionate heart of Jesus. Draw 
them to the light of the Gospel. These souls do not know what great happiness it is to 
love You. Grant that they, too, may extol the generosity of Your mercy for endless ages. 
Amen. 

Fifth Day 

121 8 Today bring to Me the souls of heretics and schismatics, and immerse them in the 
ocean of My mercy. During My bitter Passion they tore at My Body and Heart; that 
is, My Church. As they return to unity with the Church, My wounds heal, and in this 
way they alleviate My Passion. 

1219 Most Merciful Jesus, Goodness Itself, You do not refuse light to those who seek it of You. 
Receive into the abode of Your Most Compassionate Heart the souls of heretics and 
schismatics. Draw them by Your light into the unity of the Church, and do not let them 
escape from the abode of Your Most Compassionate heart; but bring it about that they, 
too, come to extol the generosity of Your mercy. 

( 61 ) Even for those who have torn the garment 
of Your unity, 

A fount of mercy flows from Your Heart. 

The omnipotence of Your mercy, Oh God, 

Can lead these souls also out of error. 



274 




1220 



1221 



1222 



1223 



1224 



1225 



Eternal Father, turn Your merciful gaze upon the souls of heretics and schismatics, who 
have squandered Your blessings and misused Your graces by obstinately persisting in 
their errors. Do not look upon their errors, but upon the love of Your own Son and upon 
His bitter Passion, which He underwent for their sake, since they, too, are enclosed in the 
Most Compassionate Heart of Jesus. Bring it about that they also may glorify Your great 
mercy for endless ages. Amen. 



Sixth Day 

Today bring to me the meek and humble souls and the souls of little children, and 
immerse them in My mercy. These souls most closely resemble My Heart. They 
strengthened Me during My bitter agony. I saw them as earthly Angels, who would 
keep vigil at My altars. I pour out upon them whole torrents of grace. Only the 
humble soul is able to receive My grace. I favor humble souls with My confidence. 

(62) Most Merciful Jesus, You yourself have said, “Learn from Me for I am meek and 
humble of heart.” Receive into the abode of Your Most Compassionate Heart all meek 
and humble souls and the souls of little children. These souls send all heaven into 
ecstasy and they are the heavenly Father’s favorites. They are a sweet-smelling bouquet 
before the throne of God; God Himself takes delight in their fragrance. These souls have 
a permanent abode in Your Most Compassionate Heart, O Jesus, and they unceasingly 
sing out a hymn of love and mercy. 

A truly gentle and humble soul 

Already here on earth the air of paradise breathes, 

And in the fragrance of her humble heart 
The Creator Himself delights. 

Eternal Father, turn Your merciful gaze upon meek and humble souls, and upon the souls 
of little children who are enfolded in the abode which is the Most Compassionate Heart of 
Jesus. These souls bear the closest resemblance to Your Son. Their fragrance rises 
from the earth and reaches Your very throne. Father of mercy and of all goodness, I beg 
You by the love You bear these souls and by the delight You take in them: Bless the 
whole world, that all souls together may sing out the praises of your mercy for endless 
ages. Amen. 



Seventh Day 

Today bring to me the souls who especially venerate and glorify My mercy, and 
immerse them in My mercy. These souls sorrowed most over My Passion and 
entered most deeply into My Spirit. They are living images of My Compassionate 
heart. These souls will shine with a special brightness in the next life. Not one of 
them will go into the fire of hell. I shall particularly defend each one of them at the 
hour of death. 

(63) Most Merciful Jesus, whose Heart is Love Itself, receive into the abode of Your Most 
Compassionate Heart the souls of those who particularly extol and venerate the 
greatness of Your mercy. These souls are mighty with the very power of God Himself. In 
the midst of all afflictions and adversities they go forward, confident of Your mercy. 



275 




These souls are united to Jesus and carry all mankind on their shoulders. These souls 
will not be judged severely, but Your mercy will embrace them as they depart from this 
life. 



A soul who praises the goodness of her Lord 
Is especially loved by Him. 

She is always close to the living fountain 
And draws graces from Mercy Divine. 

Eternal Father, turn Your merciful gaze upon the souls who glorify and venerate Your 
greatest attribute, that of Your fathomless mercy, and who are enclosed in the Most 
Compassionate Heart of Jesus. These souls are a living Gospel; their hands are full of 
deeds of mercy, and their spirit, overflowing with joy, sings a canticle of mercy to You, O 
Most High! I beg You O God: Show them Your mercy according to the hope and trust 
they have placed in You. Let there be accomplished in them the promise of Jesus, who 
said to them, I Myself will defend as My own glory, during their lifetime, and 
especially at the hour of their death, those souls who will venerate My fathomless 
mercy. 



Eighth Day 

1226 Today bring to Me the souls who are in the prison of Purgatory, and immerse them 
in the abyss of My mercy. Let the torrents of My Blood cool down their scorching 
flames. All these souls are greatly loved by Me. They are making retribution to My 
justice. It is in your power to bring them relief. Draw all the indulgences from the 
treasury (64) of My Church and offer them on their behalf. Oh, if you only knew the 
torments they suffer, you would continually offer for them the alms of the spirit and 
pay off their debt to My justice. 

1227 Most Merciful Jesus, You Yourself have said that You desire mercy; so I bring into the 
abode of Your Most Compassionate Heart the souls in Purgatory, souls who are very 
dear to You, and yet, who must make retribution to Your justice. May the streams of 
Blood and Water which gushed forth from Your Heart put out the flames of the purifying 
fire, that in that place, too, the power of Your mercy may be praised. 

From that terrible heat of the cleansing fire 
Rises a plaint to Your mercy, 

And they receive comfort, refreshment, relief 
In the stream of mingled Blood and Water. 

Eternal Father, turn Your merciful gaze upon the souls suffering in Purgatory, who are 
enfolded in the Most Compassionate Heart of Jesus. I beg You, by the sorrowful Passion 
of Jesus Your Son, and by all the bitterness with which His most sacred Soul was 
flooded, manifest Your mercy to the souls who are under Your just scrutiny. Look upon 
them in no other way than through the Wounds of Jesus, Your dearly beloved Son; for we 
firmly believe that there is no limit to Your goodness and compassion. 

Ninth Day 

1228 Today bring to Me souls who have become lukewarm, and immerse them in the 
abyss of My mercy. These souls wound My Heart most painfully. My soul suffered 



276 




the most dreadful loathing in the Garden of Olives because of lukewarm souls. 
They were the reason I cried out: “Father, take this cup away from Me, if it be Your 
will.” For them, the last hope (65) of salvation is to flee to My mercy. 

1229 Most Compassionate Jesus, You are Compassion Itself. I bring lukewarm souls into the 
abode of Your Most Compassionate Heart. In this fire of Your pure love let these tepid 
souls, who like corpses, filled You with such deep loathing, be once again set aflame. O 
Most Compassionate Jesus, exercise the omnipotence of Your mercy and draw them into 
the very ardor of Your love; and bestow upon them the gift of holy love, for nothing is 
beyond Your power. 

Fire and ice cannot be joined; 

Either the fire dies, or the ice melts. 

But by Your mercy, O God, 

You can make up for all that is lacking. 

Eternal Father, turn Your merciful gaze upon lukewarm souls, who are nonetheless 
enfolded in the Most Compassionate Heart of Jesus. Father of Mercy, I beg You by the 
bitter Passion of Your Son and by His three-hour agony on the Cross; Let them, too, 
glorify the abyss of Your mercy 

1230 (66) O day of eternity, O day so long desired, 

With thirst and longing, my eyes search you out. 

Soon love will tear the veil asunder. 

And you will be my salvation. 

O day most beautiful, moment incomparable, 

When for the first time I shall see my God, 

The Bridegroom of my soul and Lord of lords, 

And fear will not restrain my soul. 

O day most solemn, O day of brightness, 

When the soul will know God in His omnipotence 
And drown totally in His love, 

Knowing the miseries of exile are o’er. 

O happy day, O blessed day, 

When my heart will burn for You with fire eternal, 

For even now I feel Your presence, though through the veil. 

Through life and death, O Jesus, You are my rapture and delight. 

O day, of which I dreamed through all my life, 

Waiting long for You, O God, 

For it is You alone whom I desire. 

You are the one and only of my heart; all else is naught. 

O day of delight, day of eternal bliss, 

God of great majesty, my beloved Spouse, 

You know that nothing will satisfy a virgin heart. 

On Your tender Heart I rest my brow. 



277 




[End of Notebook Three] 



278 




Notebook Four 



Of the Diary of Sister Faustina 



NOTEBOOK IV 



( 1 )+ 

J.M.J. 



Notebook IV 



279 




1231 Today Jesus came to live in my heart, 

He descended from His throne on high, 

The great Lord, the Creator of ail things; 

And He came to me in the form of bread. 

0 Eternal God, in my bosom enclosed, 

Possessing You, I possess all Heaven, 

And with the Angels I sing to You: Holy, 

1 live for Your glory alone. 

Not with a Seraph, do You unite Yourself, O god, 

But with a wretched man 
Who can do nothing without You; 

But to him You are ever merciful. 

My heart is Your abode, 

O King of Eternal Glory; 

Rule in my heart and be Lord, 

As in a palace of splendor untold. 

0 great, incomprehensible God, 

Who had deigned to abase Yourself so, 

Humbly I adore you 

And beg You in Your goodness to save me. 

( 2 )+ 

J.M.J. 

1 232 O sweet Mother of God, 

1 model my life on You; 

You are for me the bright dawn; 

In You I lose myself, enraptured. 

O Mother, Immaculate Virgin, 

In You the divine ray is reflected, 

Midst storms, ‘tis You who teach me to love the Lord, 
O my shield and defense from the foe. 

Cracow, August 10, 1937. 



1233 



Sr. Mary Faustina 
of the Blessed Sacrament 



O Sacred Host, fountain of divine sweetness, 

You give strength to my soul; 

O You are the Omnipotent One, who took flesh of the Virgin, 
You come to my heart, in secret, 

Beyond reach of the groping senses. 



280 




( 3 )+ 

J.M.J. 



Cracow, August 10, 1937 
Notebook Four 

1234 All for You, Jesus. I desire to adore Your mercy with every beat of my heart and, to the 
extent that I am able, to encourage souls to trust in that mercy, as You Yourself have 
commanded me, O Lord. 

1235 In my heart, in my soul, there is a dark night. My spirit has come up against an 
impenetrable wall that hides God from me. But this darkness is not of my doing. Strange 
indeed is this torture of which I fear to write in full. But even in this state, I am trying to be 
faithful to You. O my Jesus. Always and in all things, my heart beats for You alone. 

1236 (4) August 10, 1937. I came back today from Rabka to Cracow. I feel very ill. Only 
Jesus knows how much I am suffering. During these days, I have very much resembled 
Jesus Crucified. I have armed myself with patience in order to explain to each sister why 

I was not able to stay there: that is, because my health had become worse, even though I 
knew very well that certain sisters would inquire, not out of sympathy for my sufferings, 
but in order to add to them. 

1237 O Jesus, what darkness is enveloping me and what nothingness is penetrating me. But, 
my Jesus, do not leave me alone; grant me the grace of faithfulness. Although I cannot 
penetrate the mystery of God’s visitation, it is in my power to say: Your will be done. 

1238 August 12. On passing through Cracow, Rev. Father Sopocko paid me a short visit 
today. I had wanted to see him, and god fulfilled my desire. (5) This priest is a great 
soul, entirely filled with God. My joy was very great, and I thanked God for this great 
grace, because it was for the greater glory of God that I wanted to see him. 

1239 O living Host, O hidden Jesus. You see the condition of my soul. Of myself, I am unable 
to utter Your Holy Name. I cannot bring forth from my hart the fire of love but, kneeling at 
Your feet, I cast upon the Tabernacle the gaze of my soul, a gaze of faithfulness. As for 
You, You are ever the same, while within my soul a change takes place. I trust that the 
time will come when You will unveil Your countenance, and Your child will again see 
Yo9ur sweet face. I am astonished, Jesus, that You can hide Yourself from me for so 
long and that You can restrain the enormous love You have for me. In the dwelling of my 
heart, I am listening and waiting for Your coming, O only Treasure of my heart! 

1240 (6) The Lord Jesus greatly protects His representatives on earth. How closely He is 
united with them; and He orders me to give priority to their opinion over His. I have come 
to know the great intimacy which exists between Jesus and the priest. Jesus defends 
whatever the priest says, and often complies with his wishes, and sometimes makes His 
own relationship with a soul depending on the priest’s advice. O Jesus, through a special 
grace, I have come to know very clearly to what extent You have shared your power and 
mystery with them, more so than with the Angels. I rejoice in this, for it is all for my good. 

1241 + O my Jesus, when someone is unkind and unpleasant toward us, it is difficult enough to 
bear this kind of suffering. But this is very little in comparison to a suffering which I 



281 




cannot bear; namely, that which I experience when someone exhibits kindness towards 
me and then lays snares at my feet at every step (7) I take. What great will power is 
necessary to love such a soul for God’s sake. Many a time one has to be heroic in loving 
such a soul as God demands. If contact with that person were infrequent, it would be 
easier to endure, but when one lives in close contact with the person and experiences this 
at each step, this demands a very great effort. 

1242 My Jesus, penetrate me through and through so that I might be able to reflect You in my 
whole life. Divinize me so that my deeds may have supernatural value. Grant that I may 
have love, compassion and mercy for every soul without exception. O my Jesus, each of 
Your saints reflects one of Your virtues; I desire to reflect Your compassionate heart, full 
of mercy; I want to glorify it. Let Your mercy, O Jesus, be (8) impressed upon my heart 
and soul like a seal, and this will be my badge in this and the future life. Glorifying Your 
mercy is the exclusive task of my life. 

August 15, 1937. Father Andrasz’ instructions. 

1243 “These times of dryness and stark awareness of one’s wretchedness, which God has 
permitted, allow the soul to know how little it can do by itself. They will teach you how 
much you should appreciate God’s graces. Secondly, faithfulness in all exercises and 
duties, faithfulness in everything, just as in times of joy. Thirdly, as regards the matters in 
question, be absolutely obedient to the Archbishop [Jalbrzykowski] although, from time to 
time, the matter can be brought to his attention, but peacefully. (9) Sometimes, a little 
bitter truth is necessary.” 

At the end of the conversation, I asked the priest to allow me to commune with Jesus as I 
had done formerly. He answered, “I cannot give orders to the Lord Jesus, but if He 
Himself draws you to Himself you may follow the attraction. However, always remember 
to show Him great reverence, for the Lord is great indeed. If you are truly seeking God’s 
will in all this and desire to fulfill it, you can be at peace; the Lord will not allow any sort of 
error. As to the mortifications and sufferings, you will give me an account next time of 
how you can carry them out. Place yourself in the hands of the Most Holy Mother.” 

1244 August 15, 1937. During meditation, God’s presence pervaded me keenly, and I was 
aware of the Virgin Mary’s joy at the moment of Her Assumption Towards the end of the 
ceremony (10) carried out in honor of the Mother of God, I saw the Virgin Mary, and She 
said to me, Oh, how very pleased I am with the homage of your love! And at that moment 
She covered all the sisters of our Congregation with Her mantle. With Her right hand, 

She clasped Mother General Michael to herself, and with Her left hand She did so to me, 
while all the sisters were at Her feet, covered with Her mantle. Then the Mother of God 
said, Everyone who perseveres zealously till death in My Congregation will be spared the 
fire of purgatory, and I desire that each one distinguish herself by the following virtues: 
humility and meekness; chastity and love of God and neighbor; compassion and mercy. 
After these words, the whole Congregation disappeared from my sight, and I remained 
alone with the Most Holy Mother who instructed me about the will of God and how to (11) 
apply it to my life, submitting completely to His most holy decrees. It is impossible for one 
to please God without obeying His holy will. My daughter, I strongly recommend that you 
faithfully fulfill all God’s wishes, for that is most pleasing in His holy eyes. I very much 
desire that you distinguish yourself in this faithfulness in accomplishing god’s will. Put the 



282 




will of God before all sacrifices and holocausts. While the heavenly Mother was talking to 
me, a deep understanding of this will of god was entering my soul. 

1245 My Jesus, delight of my hart, when my soul is filled with Your divinity, I accept sweetness 
and bitterness with the same equanimity. One and the other will pass away. All that I 
keep in my soul is the love of God. For this I strive; all else is secondary. 

1246 (12) 16 [August 1937], After Holy Communion, I saw the Lord Jesus in all His majesty, 
and He said to me, My daughter, during the weeks when you neither saw Me nor felt 
My presence, I was more profoundly united to you that at times [when you 
experienced] ecstasy. And the faithfulness and fragrance of your prayer have 
reached Me. After these words, my soul became flooded with God’s consolation. I did 
not see Jesus, and there was only one word I could utter and that was: “Jesus.” And 
after pronouncing that Name, my soul was again filled with light and deeper recollection, 
which lasted uninterruptedly for three days. However, outwardly I could still carry out my 
usual duties. 

My whole being was stirred to its most secret depths. God’s greatness does not frighten 
me, but makes me happy. By giving Him glory, I myself am lifted up. On seeing His 
happiness, I myself am made happy, because (13) all that is in Him flows back upon me. 

1247 I came to know of the condition of a certain soul and of what in that soul is displeasing to 
God. I learn it in the following way: I immediately feel pain in my hands, my feet and my 
side, in those places where the hands, feet and side of the Savior were pierced. At that 
same time, I receive knowledge of the soul’s condition and of the nature of the sin 
committed. 

1248 I experience a desire to make reparation to the Lord Jesus in a way which corresponds 
[to the offense]. Today I wore a chain belt for seven hours in order to obtain the grace of 
repentance for that soul. In the seventh hour I felt relief as the soul experienced interiorly 
the remission of its sin, although it had not yet gone to confession. For sins of the flesh, I 
mortify the body and fast to the degree that I am permitted. For sins of pride, (14) I pray 
with my forehead touching the floor. For sins of hatred, I pray and do some good deed for 
a person whom I find difficult. And thus I make amends according to the nature of the sin 
of which I am aware. 

1249 19 [August 1937], Today during adoration, the Lord gave me to know how much He 
desires a soul to distinguish itself by deeds of love. And in spirit I saw how many souls 
are calling out to us, “Give us God.” And the blood of the Apostles boiled up within me. I 
will not be stingy with it; I will shed it all to the last drop for immortal souls. Although 
perhaps God will not demand that in the physical sense, in spirit it is possible and no less 
meritorious. 

1 250 Today I realized that I was not to ask for a certain permission, but that I was to respond to 
this matter as the Mother of God would have me do. For the present, no explanations are 
(15) necessary; peace has returned to me. I received this inspiration just as I was on my 
way to make my examination of conscience, and I was very worried because I did not 
know how to go about it. Divine light can do more in one moment than I, fatiguing myself 
for several days. 



283 




1251 August 22. This morning Saint Barbara, Virgin, visited me and recommended that I offer 
Holy Communion for nine days on behalf of my country and thus appease God’s anger. 
This virgin was wearing a crown made of stars and was holding a sword in her hand. The 
brilliance of the crown was the same as that of the sword. With her white dress and her 
flowing hair, she was so beautiful that if I had not already known the Virgin Mary I would 
have thought that it was She. Now I understand that each virgin has a special beauty all 
her own; a distinct beauty radiates from each of them. 

1252 (16) + August 25, 1937. Today Reverend Father Sopocko arrived and will stay with us 
until the 30 th . I was extremely glad, because only God knows how ardently I wished to 
see him for the sake of the work God is doing through him, and this, even though the visit 
had some unpleasant aspects to it as well. 

1253 + While he was celebrating Mass, I saw during the elevation the Crucified Lord Jesus, 
who was disengaging His right arm from the cross, and the light which was coming from 
the Wound was touching his arm. This happened in the course of three Masses, and I 
understood that God would give him strength to carry out this work despite difficulties and 
opposition. This soul, who is pleasing to God, is being crucified by numerous sufferings, 
but I am not at all surprised, for this is how God treats those He especially loves. 

1254 (17) + Today, the 29 th , I received permission 207 to have a longer conversation with Rev. 

Dr. Sopocko. I learned that, although there are difficulties, the work is moving ahead, and 
that the Feast of Mercy is already far advanced. It will not be long now before it becomes 
a reality, but much prayer is still needed to bring an end to certain difficulties. 

1255 “As concerns yourself, Sister, it is good that you are remaining in a state of holy 
indifference in everything that pertains to the will of God, and that you are better 
maintaining a state of equilibrium. Please do your best to keep this equanimity. Now, as 
regards all these matters, you are to depend exclusively on Father Andrasz; I am in 
complete agreement with him. Do nothing on your own, Sister, but in all matters take 
counsel from your spiritual director. I beg you to keep your levelheadedness and as great 
a calm as possible. - One more thing - I am having printed ( 18 ) the chaplet which is to be 
on the back of the image, as well as the invocations that resemble a litany; these too will 
be placed on the back. Another large image has also been printed, and with it a few 
pages which contain the Novena to The Divine Mercy. 208 Pray, Sister, that this be 
approved.” 

1256 [August] 30. Reverend Father Sopocko left this morning. When I was steeped in a 
prayer of thanksgiving for the great grace that I had received from God; namely, that of 
seeing Father, I became united in a special way with the Lord who said to me, He is a 

priest after My own Heart; his efforts are pleasing to Me. You see, My daughter, 
that My will must be done and that which I had promised you, I shall do. Through 
him I spread comfort to suffering and careworn souls. Through him it pleased Me 
to proclaim the worship of My mercy. (19) And through this work of mercy more 
souls will come close to Me than otherwise would have, even if he had kept giving 
absolution day and night for the rest of his life, because by so doing, he would 
have labored only for as long as he lived; whereas, thanks to this work of mercy, he 
will be laboring till the end of the world. 



284 




1257 I had undertaken to make a novena for the intention of seeing him, but I did not even 
finish it before God granted me that grace. 

1258 O my Jesus, how poorly I took advantage of this grace, but that did not depend on me, 
though from another point of view, it did so very much. 

1259 + During this conversation, I came to know his anguished soul. This crucified soul 
resembles the Savior. Where he expects, with good reason, to find consolation, he finds 
the cross. He lives among many friends, but has no one but Jesus. This is how God 
strips the soul He especially loves. 

1260 (20) Today I heard these words: My daughter, be always like a little child towards 
those who represent Me, otherwise you will not benefit from the graces I bestow on 
you through them. 

1 261 September 1 , 1 937. I saw the Lord Jesus, like a king in great majesty, looking down upon 
our earth with great severity; but because of his Mother’s intercession He prolonged the 
time of His mercy. 

1262 September 3. First Friday of the month. During Holy Mass, I became united with God. 
Jesus gave me to know that even the smallest thing does not happen on earth without His 
will. After having seen this, my soul entered into an unusual repose; I found myself 
completely at peace as to the work in its full extent. God can deal with me as He pleases, 
and I will bless Him for everything. 

1263 (21) Up to now, I have been wondering, with some fear, where these inspirations would 

lead me. My fear increased when the Lord made known to me that I was to leave this 
Congregation. This is the third year passing by since that time, and my soul has felt, in 
turns, enthusiasm and an urge to act - and then I have a lot of courage and strength - 
and then again, when the decisive moment to undertake the work draws near, I feel 
deserted by God, and because of this an extraordinary fear pervades my soul, and I see 
that it is not the hour intended by God to initiate the work. These are sufferings about 
which I don’t even know how to write. God alone knows what I put up with, day and night. 
It seems to me that the worst torments of the martyrs would be easier for me to bear than 
what I am going through, though without the shedding of a drop of blood. But all this is for 
souls, for souls, Lord 

1264 (22) Act of total abandonment to the will of God, which is for me, love and mercy itself. 

Act of Oblation 

Jesus-Host, whom I have this very moment received into my heart, through this union 
with You I offer myself to the heavenly Father as a sacrificial host, abandoning myself 
totally and completely to the most merciful and holy will of my God. From today onward, 
Your will, Lord, is my food. Take my whole being; dispose of me as You please. 

Whatever Your fatherly hand gives me, I will accept with submission, peace and joy. I 
fear nothing, no matter in what direction You lead me; helped by Your grace I will carry 
out everything You demand of me. I no longer fear any of Your inspirations nor (23) do I 
probe anxiously to see where they will lead me. Lead me, O God, along whatever roads 
You please; I have placed all my trust in Your will which is, for me, love and mercy itself. 



285 




Bid me to stay in this convent, I will stay; bid me to undertake the work, I will undertake it; 
leave me in uncertainty about the work until I die, be blessed; give me death when, 
humanly speaking, my life seems particularly necessary, be blessed. Should You take 
me in my youth, be blessed; should You let me live to a ripe old age, be blessed. Should 
You give me health and strength, be blessed; should you confine me to a bed of pain for 
my whole life, be blessed. Should you give only failures and disappointments in life, be 
blessed. Should You allow my purest intentions to be condemned, be blessed. Should 
You enlighten my mind, be blessed. Should You leave me in darkness and all kinds of 
(24) torments, be blessed. 

From this moment on, I live in the deepest peace, because the Lord Himself is carrying 
me in the hollow of His hand. He, Lord of unfathomable mercy, knows that I desire Him 
alone in all things, always and everywhere. 

1265 Prayer. O Jesus, stretched out upon the cross, I implore You, give me the grace of doing 

faithfully the most holy will of Your Father, in all things, always and everywhere. And 
when this will of God will seem to me very harsh and difficult to fulfill, it is then I beg You, 
Jesus, may power and strength flow upon me from Your wounds, and may my lips keep 
repeating, “Your will be done, O Lord.” O Savior of the world, Lover of man’s salvation, 
who in such terrible torment and pain forget Yourself to think only of the salvation of 
souls, O most compassionate Jesus, grant me the grace to forget myself that I may live 
totally for souls, helping You in the work of salvation, according to the most holy will of 
Your Father 

1266 (25) August 5, [1937], 209 The Lord let me know how much our dear Mother Superior 
[Irene] is defending me against.... Not only by prayer but also by deed. Thank You, 

Jesus, for this grace. It will not go unrequited in my heart; when I am with Jesus, I do not 
forget about her. 

1267 September 6, 1937. Today, I begin a new assignment. I go from the garden to the desert 
of the gate. 210 I went in to talk to the Lord for a while. I asked Him for a blessing and for 
graces to faithfully carry out the duties entrusted to me. I heard these words: My 

daughter, I am always with you. I have given you the opportunity to practice deeds 
of mercy which you will perform according to obedience. You will give Me much 
pleasure if, each evening, you will speak to Me especially about this task. I felt that 
Jesus had given me a new grace in relation to my new duties; but, despite this, I have 
locked myself deeper in His Heart. 

1268 (26) Today I felt more ill, but Jesus has given me many more opportunities on this day to 
practice virtue. It so happened that I was busier than usual, and the sister in charge of 
the kitchen made it clear to me how irritated she was that I had come late for dinner, 
although it was quite impossible for me to have come sooner. At any rate, I felt so unwell 
that I had to ask Mother Superior to allow me to lie down. I went to ask Sister N. to take 
my place, and again I got a scolding: “What is this, Sister, you’re so exhausted that 
you’re going back to bed again! Confound you with all this lying in bed!” I put up with all 
that, but that wasn’t the end. I still had to ask the sister who was in charge of the sick to 
bring me my meal. When I told her this, she burst out of the chapel into the corridor after 

me to give me a piece of her mind: “Why on earth are you going to bed, Sister, etc ” I 

asked her not to bother bringing me anything. (27) I am writing all this very briefly 



286 




because it is not my intention to write about such things, and I am doing so merely to 
dissuade souls from treating others in this way, for this is displeasing to the Lord. In a 
suffering soul we should see Jesus Crucified, and not a loafer or burden on the 
community. A soul who suffers with submission to the will of God draws down more 
blessings on the whole convent than all the working sisters. Poor indeed is a convent 
where there are no sick sisters. God often grants many and great graces out of regard for 
the soul who are suffering, and He withholds many punishments solely because of the 
suffering souls. 

1269 O my Jesus, when shall we look upon souls with higher motives in mind? When will our 
judgments be true? You give us occasions to practice deeds of mercy, and instead we 
use the occasions to pass judgment. In order to know whether the love of God flourishes 
in a convent, one must ask how they treat the sick, the disabled, and the infirm who are 
there. 

1 270 (28) September 1 0, [1 937], I learned in the course of meditation that the purer the soul, 
the greater her communion with God on the spiritual level. She pays little heed to the 
senses and their protests. God is a Spirit, and so I love Him in spirit and in truth. 

1271 When I heard how dangerous it was to be at the gate these days because of revolutionary 
disturbances and how many evil people have a hatred for convents, I went in and had a 
talk with the Lord and asked Him to so arrange it that no evil person would dare come to 
the gate. Then I heard these words: My daughter, the moment you went to the gate I 
set a Cherub over it to guard it. Be at peace. After returning from my conversation 
with the Lord, I saw a little white cloud and, in it, a Cherub with his hands joined. His 
gaze was like lightning, and I understood how the fire of God’s love burns in that look. . . . 

1272 (29) September 14, 1937. Exaltation of the Holy Cross. Today I saw what great 
opposition this priest [Father Sopocko] is experiencing in regard to this whole matter. 

Even devout souls who are zealous for God’s glory are opposing him. That he is not 
discouraged by all this is due to a special grace of God. 

1273 Jesus: My daughter, do you think you have written enough about My mercy? What 
you have written is but a drop compared to the ocean. I am Love and Mercy Itself. 
There is no misery that could be a match for My mercy, neither will misery exhaust 
it, because as it is being granted - it increases. The soul that trusts in My mercy is 
most fortunate, because I Myself take care of it. 

1274 I experience great torments of soul when I see God offended. Today I recognized that 
mortal sins were being committed not far from our door. It was evening. I prayed 
earnestly in the chapel, (30) and then I went to scourge myself. When I knelt down to 
pray, however, the Lord allowed me to experience how a soul rejected by God suffers. It 
seems to me that my heart was torn to pieces, and at the same time I understood how 
much such a soul wounds the most merciful Heart of Jesus. The poor creature does not 
want to accept God’s mercy. The more God has pursued a soul with His mercy, the more 
just will He be towards it. 

1275 My Secretary, write that I am more generous toward sinners that toward the just. It 
was for their sake that I came down from heaven; it was for their sake that My 



287 




Blood was spilled. Let them not fear to approach Me; they are most in need of My 
mercy. 

1276 September 16, 1937. I wanted very much to make a Holy Hour before the Blessed 
Sacrament today, but God’s will was otherwise. At eight o’clock I was seized with such 
violent pains that (31) I had to go to bed at once. I was convulsed with pain for three 
hours; that is, until eleven o’clock at night. No medicine had any effect on me, and 
whatever I swallowed I threw up. At times, the pains caused me to lose consciousness. 
Jesus had me realize that in this way I took part in His Agony in the Garden, and that He 
Himself allowed these sufferings in order to offer reparation to God for the souls murdered 
in the wombs of wicked mothers. I have gone through these sufferings three times now. 
They always start at eight o’clock in the evening and last until eleven. No medicine can 
lessen these sufferings. When eleven o’clock comes, they cease by themselves, and I 
fall asleep at that moment. The following day, I feel very weak. 

This happened to me for the first time when I was at the sanatorium. The doctors couldn’t 
get to the bottom of it, and no injection or medicine helped me at all (32) nor did I myself 
have any idea of what the sufferings were about. I told the doctor that never before in my 
life had I experienced such sufferings, and he declared he did not know what sort of pains 
they are. But now I understand the nature of these pains, because the Lord Himself has 

made this known to me Yet when I think that I may perhaps suffer in this way again, I 

tremble. But I don’t know whether I’ll ever again suffer in this way; I leave that to God. 
What it pleases God to send, I will accept with submission and love. If only I could save 
even one soul from murder by means of these sufferings! 

1277 On the day after these sufferings, I can sense the condition of souls and their disposition 
towards God; I am pervaded with true knowledge. 

1278 I received Holy Communion in the manner of the angels, so to speak. My soul is filled 
with God’s light and nourishes itself from Him. (33) My feelings are as if dead. This is a 
purely spiritual union with God; it is a great predominance of spirit over nature. 

1279 The Lord gave me knowledge of the graces which He has been constantly lavishing on 
me. This light pierced me through and through, and I came to understand the 
inconceivable favors that God has been bestowing on me. I stayed in my cell for a long 
act of thanksgiving, lying face down on the ground and shedding tears of gratitude. I 
could not rise from the ground because, whenever I tried to do so, God’s light gave me 
new knowledge of His grace. It was only at the third attempt that I was able to get up. As 
His child, I felt that everything the heavenly Father possessed was equally mine. He 
Himself lifted me from the ground up to His Heart. I felt that everything that existed was 
exclusively mine, but I had no desire for it all, because God alone is enough for me. 

1280 (34) Today I learned with what aversion the Lord comes to a certain soul in Holy 
Communion. He goes to that heart as to a dark prison, to undergo torture and affliction. I 
kept begging His pardon and offering atonement for the offense. 

1281 The Lord made known to me that I would see my brother [Stanley 211 ], but I could not 
understand how this would happen or why he should come to visit me. I knew that God 
had given him the grace of a religious vocation, but why should he be coming to visit me? 
However, I put aside these thoughts and believed that if the Lord had given me to know 



288 




he would come, that was enough for me. I fixed my thoughts on God, putting aside every 
preoccupation with creatures and entrusting everything to the Lord. 

1282 + When the same poor people come to the gate a second time, I treat them with greater 
gentleness, and I do not let them (35) see that I know they have been here before; [I do 
this] in order not to embarrass them. And then they speak to me freely about their 
troubles and needs. 

Although Sister N. tells me that is not the way to deal with beggars, and slams the door in 
their faces, when she is not there, I treat them as my Master would. Sometimes more is 
given when giving nothing, than when giving much in a rude manner. 

1283 Often the Lord gives me interior knowledge concerning the persons I meet at the gate. 
One pitiable soul wanted to tell me a bit about herself. Taking advantage of the 
opportunity, I made her understand, in a delicate way, the miserable condition of her soul. 
She went away with a better disposition. 

1284 September 17, [1937.] O Jesus, I see so much beauty scattered around me, beauty for 
which I give you ( 36 ) constant thanks. But I see that some souls are like stone, always 
cold and unfeeling. Even miracles hardly move them. Their eyes are always fixed on 
their feet, and so they see nothing but themselves. 

1285 You have surrounded my life with Your tender and loving care, more than I can 
comprehend, for I will understand Your goodness in its entirety only when the veil is lifted. 
I desire that my whole life be but one act of thanksgiving to You, O God. 

1 286 + Thank You, O God, for all the graces 
Which unceasingly You lavish upon me, 

Graces which enlighten me with the brilliance of the sun, 

For by them You show me the sure way. 

Thank You, O Lord, for creating me, 

For calling me into being from nothingness, 

For imprinting Your divinity on my soul, 

The work of sheer merciful love. 

( 37 ) Thank You, O god, for Holy Baptism 
Which engrafted me into Your family, 

A gift great beyond all thought or expression 
Which transforms my soul. 

Thank You, O Lord, for Holy Confession, 

For that inexhaustible spring of great mercy, 

For that inconceivable fountain of graces 
In which sin-tainted souls become purified. 

Thank You, O Jesus, for Holy Communion 
In which You give us Yourself. 

I feel Your Heart beating within my breast 
As You cause Your divine life to unfold within me. 



289 




Thank You, O Holy Spirit, for the Sacrament of Confirmation, 

Which dubs me Your knight 

And gives strength to my soul at each moment, 

Protecting me from evil. 

Thank You, O God, for the grace of a vocation 
For being called to serve you alone, 

Leading me to make You my sole love, 

An unequal honor for my soul. 

(38) Thank You, O Lord, for perpetual vows, 

For that union of pure love, 

For having deigned to unite Your pure heart with mine 
And uniting my heart to Yours in the purest of bonds. 

Thank You, O Lord, for the Sacrament of Anointing 
Which, in my final moments, will give me strength; 

My help in battle, my guide to salvation, 

Fortifying my soul till we rejoice forever. 

Thank You, O God, for all the inspirations 
That Your goodness lavishes upon me, 

For the interior lights given my soul, 

Which the heart senses, but words cannot express. 

Thank You, O Holy Trinity, for the vastness of the graces 
Which You have lavished on me unceasingly through life. 

My gratitude will intensify as the eternal dawn rises, 

When, for the first time, I sing to Your glory. 

1287 + Despite the peace in my soul, I fight a continuous battle with the enemy of my soul. 
More and more, I am discovering his traps, and the battle flares up anew. (39) During 
interludes of calm, I exercise myself and keep watch, lest the enemy find me unprepared. 
And when I see his great fury, I stay inside the stronghold; that is, the Most Sacred Heart 
of Jesus. 

1288 September 19, [1937], Today, the Lord told me, My daughter, write that it pains Me 
very much when religious souls receive the Sacrament of Love merely out of habit, 
as if they did not distinguish this food. I find neither faith nor love in their hearts. I 
go to such souls with great reluctance. It would be better if they did not receive 
Me. 

1289 Most sweet Jesus, set on fire my love for You and transform me into Yourself. Divinize 
me that my deeds may be pleasing to You. May this be accomplished by the power of 
the Holy Communion which I receive daily. Oh, how greatly I desire to be wholly 
transformed into You, O Lord! 

1290 (40) September 19, 1937. Today my own brother Stanley, visited me. I rejoiced greatly 
in this beautiful soul, who also intends to devote himself to God’s service. That is to say, 



290 




God Himself is drawing him to His love. We talked for a long time about God, about His 
goodness. During this conversation with him, I learned how pleasing his soul was to God. 
I received permission from Mother Superior to see him more often. When he asked my 
advice about entering religion, I replied, “Surely you know best what God is asking of 
you.” I mentioned the Jesuit Order, but said, “Enter wherever you like.” I promised to 
pray for him, and I decided to make a novena to the Sacred Heart through the 
intercession of Father Peter Skaraa with the promise of having it announced in the 
Messenger of the Sacred Heart , 212 because he is having great difficulties in this matter. I 
understood that, in this case, prayer was more useful than advice. 

1 291 (41 ) September 21 . Having awakened several times during the night, I thanked God 
briefly, but with all my heart, for all the graces He has given to me and to our 
Congregation, [and] I reflected on His great goodness. 

1292 When I received Holy Communion, I said to Him, “Jesus, I thought about You so many 
times last night,” and Jesus answered me, And I thought of you before I called you 
into being. “Jesus, in what way were You thinking about me?” In terms of admitting 
you to My eternal happiness. After these words, my soul was flooded with the love of 
God. I could not stop marveling at how much God loves us. 

1293 It so happened that I fell again into a certain error, in spite of a sincere resolution not to do 
so - even though the lapse was a minor imperfection and rather involuntary - and at this I 
felt such acute pain in my soul that I interrupted my work and went (42) to the chapel for a 
while. Falling at the feet of Jesus, with love and a great deal of pain, I apologized to the 
Lord, all the more ashamed because of the fact that in my conversation with Him after 
Holy Communion this very morning I had promised to be faithful to Him. Then I heard 
these words: If it hadn’t been for this small imperfection, you wouldn’t have come 
to Me. Know that as often as you come to Me, humbling yourself and asking My 
forgiveness, I pour out a superabundance of graces on your soul, and your 
imperfection vanishes before My eyes, and I see only your love and your humility. 
You lose nothing but gain much.... 

1294 The Lord has given me to know that when a soul does not accept the graces intended for 
it, another soul receives them immediately. O my Jesus, make me worthy of accepting 
Your graces because, of myself, I can do nothing. Without Your help, I cannot even utter 
Your Name worthily. 

1295 (43) September 25 , [ 1937 ], When I learned how great are the difficulties in this whole 
work, I went to the Lord and said, “Jesus, don’t You see how they are hindering Your 
work?” And I heard a voice in my soul: Do as much as is in your power, and don’t 
worry about the rest. These difficulties prove that this work is Mine. Be at peace 
so long as you do all that is in your power. 

1296 Today, I opened the gate for Mother Superior and knew interiorly that she was going to 
town on business regarding the work of the Divine Mercy. It is this superior who has 
contributed most to this whole work of mercy. 

1297 Today I imprudently asked two poor children if they really had nothing to eat at home. 

The children, without answering me, walked away from the gate. I understood how 



291 




difficult it was for them to speak about their poverty, so I went after them in a hurry and 
brought them back, (44) giving them as much as I had permission for. 

1298 O God, show me Your mercy 

According to the compassion of the Heart of Jesus. 

Hear my sighs and entreaties, 

And the tears of a contrite heart. 

0 Omnipotent, ever-merciful God, 

Your compassion is never exhausted. 

Although my misery is as vast as the sea, 

1 have complete trust in the mercy of the Lord. 

O Eternal Trinity, yet ever-gracious God, 

Your compassion is without measure. 

And so I trust in the sea of Your mercy, 

And sense You, Lord, though a veil hold me aloof. 

May the omnipotence of Your Mercy, O Lord. 

Be glorified all over the world. 

May its veneration never cease. 

Proclaim, my soul, God’s mercy with fervor. 

1299 (45) September 27, [1937], Today, Mother Superior and I went to see a certain 
gentleman 213 where they were printing and painting small holy cards of The Divine Mercy, 
and also the invocations and the chaplet, which have already received approbation. And 
we were also to see the improved larger image. 214 It very much resembles the original. 
This made me very happy. 

1300 When I looked at this image, I was pierced with such a lively love for God that, for a 

moment, I did not know where I was. When we had finished our business, we went to the 
Church of the Most Holy Virgin Mary. We attended Holy Mass, during which the Lord 
gave me to know what a great number of souls would attain salvation through this work. 
Then I entered into an intimate conversation with the Lord, thanking Him for having 
condescended to grant me the grace of seeing how the veneration of His unfathomable 
mercy is spreading. I immersed myself in a profound prayer of thanksgiving. Oh, how 
great is God’s generosity! Blessed be the Lord, who is faithful (46) in His promises 

1301 It is extraordinary how Mother Irene has so much light from God concerning this whole 
matter. She was the first to allow me to carry out the Lord’s wishes, although it was not 
until two years after the revelation that she became my superior. And despite this fact, 
she was the first to go with me when the painting of the image was first undertaken. And 
now again, when some things concerning the Divine Mercy are being published, and 
small holy cards are being printed, again it is she who is going with me [to take care of] 
this matter. God has ordained all this in a mysterious way, because this was begin in 
Vilnius, and now God’s will has so directed the circumstances that this matter is being 
continued in Cracow. I know how pleasing this superior is to God; I see how God is 
directing everything and wants me to be under her protection during these important 
times.... Thank You, Lord, for such superiors, who live in the love (47) and fear of God. 



292 




That is why I pray for her most of all, because she has put herself out the most for the 
sake of this work of Divine Mercy 

1302 September 29, [1937], Today, I have come to understand many of God’s mysteries. I 
have come to know that Holy Communion remains in me until the next Holy Communion. 
A vivid and clearly felt presence of God continues in my soul. The awareness of this 
plunges me into deep recollection, without the slightest effort on my part. My heart is a 
living tabernacle in which the living Host is reserved. I have never sought God in some 
far-off place, but within myself. It is in the depths of my own being that I commune with 
my God. 

1303 My God, despite all the graces, I long without cease to be eternally united with my God; 
and the better I know Him, the more ardently I desire Him. 

+ 

(48) J.M.J. 

1304 With longing I gaze into the starlit sky, 

Into the sapphire of fathomless firmaments. 

There the pure heart leaps out to find You, O God, 

And yearns to be freed of the bonds of the flesh. 

With great longing, I gaze upon you, my homeland, 

When will this, my exile, come to an end? 

O Jesus, such is the call of Your bride 
Who suffers agony in her thirst for You. 

With longing, I gaze at the footprints of the saints 

Who crossed this wilderness on their way to the fatherland. 

They left me the example of their virtue and their counsels, 

And they say to me, “Patience, Sister, soon the fetters will break.” 

But my longing soul hears not these words. 

Ardently it yearns for its Lord and its God, 

And it understands not human language, 

Because it is enamored of Him alone. 

My longing soul, wounded with love, 

Forces its way through all created things 

(49) And unites itself with infinite eternity, 

With the Lord whom my heart has espoused. 

Allow my longing soul, O God, 

To be drowned in your Divine Three-fold Essence. 

Fulfill my desires, for which I humbly beg You, 

With a heart brimming with love’s fire. 

1305 A certain person came to the door today and asked to be admitted as one of our students. 
But she could not be admitted. She was in great need of our house. During the 
conversation which I had with her, the Passion of Jesus was renewed in me. When she 



293 




had gone, I undertook one of the severest mortifications. Nevertheless, the next time I 
will not let such a soul get away. For three days I suffered much on her account. How 
much I regret that our institutions are so small and that they cannot accommodate a 
greater number of souls. My Jesus, You know how much I grieve over every straying 
sheep 

1306 (50) + O humility, lovely flower, I see how few souls possess you. Is it because you are 
so beautiful and at the same time so difficult to attain? O yes, it is both the one and the 
other. Even God takes great pleasure in her. The floodgates of heaven are open to a 
humble soul, and a sea of graces flows down upon her. O how beautiful is a humble soul! 
From her heart, as from a censer, rises a varied and most pleasing fragrance which 
breaks through the skies and reaches God Himself, filling His Most Sacred Heart with joy. 
God refuses nothing to such a soul; she is all-powerful and influences the destiny of the 
whole world. God raises such a soul up to His very throne, and the more she humbles 
herself, the more God stoops down to her, pursuing her with His graces and 
accompanying her at every moment with His omnipotence. Such a soul is most deeply 
united with God. O humility, strike deep roots in my whole being. O Virgin most pure, but 
also most humble, help me to attain deep (51) humility. Now I understand why there are 
so few saints; it is because so few souls are deeply humble. 

1307 Eternal Love, Depth of Mercy, O Triune Holiness, yet One God, whose bosom is full of 
love for all, as a good Father You scorn no one. O Love of God, Living Fountain, pour 
Yourself out upon us, Yours unworthy creatures. May our misery not hold back the 
torrents of Your love, for indeed, there is no limit to Your mercy. 

1308 + Jesus, I have noticed that You seem to be less concerned with me. Yes, My child, I am 
replacing Myself with your spiritual director [Father Andrasz], He is taking care of you 
according to My will. Respect his every word as My own. He is the veil behind 
which I am hiding. Your director and I are one; his words are My words. 

1309 (52) When I make the Way of the Cross, I am deeply moved at the twelfth station. Here I 

reflect on the omnipotence of God’s mercy which passed through the Heart of Jesus. In 
this open wound of the Heart of Jesus I enclose all poor humans. . . . And those individuals 
whom I love, as often as I make the Way of the Cross. From that Fount of Mercy issued 
the two rays; that is, the Blood and the Water. With the immensity of their grace they 
flood the whole world 

1310 When one is ill and weak, one must constantly make efforts to measure up to what others 
are doing as a matter of course. But even those matter-of-course things cannot always 
be managed. Nevertheless, thank You, Jesus, for everything, because it is not the 
greatness of the works, but the greatness of the effort that will be rewarded. What is 
done out of love is not small, O my Jesus, for Your eyes see everything. (53) I do not 
know why I feel so terribly unwell in the morning; I have to muster all my strength to get 
out of bed, sometimes even to the point of heroism. The thought of Holy Communion 
gives me back a little more strength. And so, the day starts with a struggle and ends with 
a struggle. When I go to take my rest, I feel like a soldier returning from the battlefield. 
You alone, my Lord and Master, know what this day has contained. 

131 1 Meditation. During meditation, the sister on the kneeler next to mine keeps coughing and 
clearing her throat, sometimes without a break. It occurred to me once that I might take 



294 




another place for the time of the meditation, because Mass had already been offered. But 
then I thought that if I did change my place, the sister would notice this and might feel hurt 
that I had moved away from her. So I decided to continue in prayer in my usual place, 

(54) and to offer this act of patience to God. Toward the end of the meditation, my soul 
was flooded with God’s consolation, and this to the limit of what my heart could bear; and 
the Lord gave me to know that if I had moved away from that sister I would have moved 
away also from those graces that flowed into my soul. 

1312 + Jesus came to the main entrance today, under the guise of a poor young man. This 
young man, emaciated, barefoot and bareheaded, and with his clothes in tatters, was 
frozen because the day was cold and rainy. He asked for something hot to eat. So I 
went to the kitchen, but found nothing there for the poor. But, after searching around for 
some time, I succeeded in finding some soup, which I reheated and into which I crumbled 
some bread, and I gave it to the poor young man, who ate it. As I was taking the bowl 
from him, he gave me to know that He was the Lord of heaven and earth. When I saw 
Him as He was, He vanished from my sight. (55) When I went back in and reflected on 
what had happened at the gate, I heard these words in my soul: My daughter, the 
blessings of the poor who bless Me as they leave this gate have reached My ears. 
And your compassion, within the bounds of obedience, has pleased Me, and this is 
why I came down from My throne - to taste the fruits of your mercy. 

1313 O my Jesus, now everything is clear to me, and I understand all that has just happened. I 
somehow felt and asked myself what sort of a poor man is this who radiates such 
modesty. From that moment on, there was stirred up in my heart and even purer love 
toward the poor and the needy. Oh, how happy I am that my superiors have given me 
such a task! I understand that mercy is manifold; one can do good always and 
everywhere and at all times. An ardent love of God sees all around itself constant 
opportunities to share itself through deed, word and prayer. Now I understand (56) the 
words which You spoke to me, O Lord, some time ago. 

1314 + Oh, what great efforts I must make to carry out my duties well when my health is so 
poor! This will be known to You alone, O Christ. 

1315 + In times of interior desolation I do not lose my peace, because I know that God never 
abandons a soul, except perhaps only when the soul itself breaks the bond of love by its 
unfaithfulness. However, all creatures without exception depend on the Lord and are 
maintained by His omnipotence. Some are under the rule of love, others under the rule of 
justice. It depends on us under which rule we want to live, because no one is refused the 
aid of sufficient grace. I am not frightened at all by my apparent abandonment. I examine 
myself more profoundly to discover whether this is due to my fault. If this is not the case 
- then may [the Lord] be blessed! 

1316 (57) October 1, 1937. Daughter, I need sacrifice lovingly accomplished, because 
that alone has meaning for Me. Enormous indeed are the debts of the world which 
are due to Me; pure souls can pay them by their sacrifice, exercising mercy in 
spirit. 



1317 I understand Your words, Lord, and the magnitude of the mercy that ought to shine in my 
soul. Jesus: I know, My daughter, that you understand it and that you do 



295 




everything within your power. But write this for the many souls who are often 
worried because they do not have the material means with which to carry out an 
act of mercy. Yet spiritual mercy, which requires neither permission nor 
storehouses, is much more meritorious and is within the grasp of every soul. If a 
soul does not exercise mercy somehow or other, it will not obtain My mercy on the 
day of judgment. Oh, if only souls knew how to gather eternal treasure for 
themselves, they would not be judged, for they would forestall My judgment with 
their mercy. 

131 8 (58) October 1 0, [1 937], O my Jesus, in thanksgiving for Your many graces, I offer You 
my body and soul, intellect and will, and all the sentiments of my heart. Through the 
vows, I have given myself entirely to You; I have then nothing more than I can offer you. 
Jesus said to me, My daughter, you have not offered Me that which is really yours. I 
probed deeply into myself and found that I love God with all the faculties of my soul and, 
unable to see what it was that I had not yet given to the Lord, I asked, “Jesus, tell me 
what it is, and I will give it to You at once with a generous heart.” Jesus said to me with 
kindness, Daughter, give Me your misery, because it is your exclusive property. At 
that moment, a ray of light illumined my soul, and I saw the whole abyss of my misery. In 
that same moment I nestled close to the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus with so much trust 
that even if I had the sins of all the damned weighing on my conscience, I would not have 
doubted God’s mercy (59) but, with a heart crushed to dust, I would have thrown myself 
into the abyss of Your mercy. I believe, O Jesus, that you would not reject me, but would 
absolve me through the hand of Your representative. 

1319 You expired, Jesus, but the source of life gushed forth for souls, and the ocean of mercy 
opened up for the whole world. O Fount of Life, unfathomable Divine Mercy, envelop the 
whole world and empty Yourself out upon us. 

1320 At three o’clock, implore My mercy, especially for sinners; and, if only for a brief 

moment, immerse yourself in My Passion, particularly in My abandonment at the 
moment of agony. This is the hour of great mercy for the whole world. I will allow 
you to enter into My mortal sorrow. In this hour, I will refuse nothing to the soul 
that makes a request of me in virtue of My Passion 

(60) 

J. M. J. 

1321 Hail, most merciful Heart of Jesus, 

Living Fountain of all graces, 

Our sole shelter, our only refuge; 

In You I have the light of hope. 

Hail, most compassionate Heart of my God, 

Unfathomable living Fount of Love 
From which gushes life for sinful man 
And the Spring of all sweetness. 

Hail, open Wound of the Most Sacred Heart, 

From which the rays of mercy issued forth 
And from which it was given us to draw life 
With the vessel of trust alone. 



296 




Hail, God’s goodness, incomprehensible, 
Never to be measured or fathomed, 

Full of love and mercy, though always holy, 
Yet, like a good mother, ever bent o’er us. 

Hail, Throne of Mercy, Lamb of God, 

Who gave Your life in sacrifice for me, 

Before whom my soul humbles itself daily, 
Living in faith profound. 



[End of Notebook Four] 



297 




Sister Faustina 



of the Blessed Sacrament 
of the Congregation of the 
Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy 



NOTEBOOK V 



Notebook V 



298 




1322 



1323 



1324 



+ 

(1) J. M. J. 

The barque of my life sails along 
Amid darkness and shadows of night, 

And I see no shore; 

I am sailing the high seas. 

The slightest storm would drown me, 

Engulfing my boat in the swirling depths, 

If You Yourself did not watch over me, O God, 

At each instant and moment of my life. 

Amid the roaring waves 
I sail peacefully, trustingly, 

And gaze like a child into the distance without fear, 

Because You, O Jesus, are my Light. 

Dread and terror is all about me, 

But within my soul is peace more profound than the depths of the sea, 
For he who is with You, O Lord, will not perish; 

Of this Your love assures me, O God. 

Though a host of dangers surround me, 

None of them do I fear, for I fix my gaze on the starry sky, 

And I sail along bravely and merrily, 

As becomes a pure heart. 

And if the ship of my life sails so peacefully, 

This is due to but one thing above all: 

You are my helmsman, O God. 

This I confess with utmost humility. 

+ 

(2) J. M. J. 

O my God, I love You. 



Sister Faustina 

Of the Blessed Sacrament. 



Cracow, October 20, 1937. 



+ I bow down before You, O Bread of Angels, 
With deep faith, hope and love 
And from the depths of my soul I worship You, 
Though I am but nothingness. 

I bow down before you, O hidden God 
And love You with all my hart. 



299 




The veils of mystery hinder me not at all; 

I love You as do Your chosen ones in heaven. 

I bow down before You, O Lamb of God 
Who take away the sins of my soul, 

Whom I receive into my heart each morn, 

You who are my saving help. 

+ 

(3) J. M. J. 

Cracow, October 20, 1937. Fifth Notebook 

1325 O my God, let everything that is in me praise You, my Lord and Creator; and with every 
beat of my heart I want to praise Your unfathomable mercy. I want to tell souls of Your 
goodness and encourage them to trust in Your mercy. That is my mission, which You 
Yourself have entrusted to me, O Lord, in this life and in the life to come. 

1326 We are beginning an eight-day retreat today. 215 Jesus, my Master, help me to make 
these holy retreat exercises with the greatest fervor possible. May Your Spirit guide me, 
O God, into the most profound depths of knowledge of Yourself, and of my own self as 
well. For I shall love You only as much as I shall come to know You. And I shall despise 
myself only as much as I shall come to known my misery. I know, Lord, that You will not 
refuse me Your help. I desire to come out of this retreat a saint, even though human (4) 
eyes will not notice this, not even those of the superiors. I abandon myself entirely to the 
action of Your grace. Let Your will be accomplished entirely in me, O Lord. 

1327 First day. Jesus: My daughter, this retreat will be an uninterrupted contemplation. I 
will bring you into this retreat as into a spiritual banquet. Close to My merciful 
Heart, you will meditate upon all the graces your heart has received, and a deep 
peace will accompany your soul. I want the eyes of your soul to be always fixed on 
My holy will, since it is in this way that you will please Me most. No sacrifices can 
be compared to this. Throughout all the exercises you will remain close to My 
Heart. You shall not undertake any reforms, because I will dispose of your whole 
life as I see fit. The priest who will preach the retreat will not speak a single word 
which will trouble you. 

1328 My Jesus, I have already made two meditations, and I recognize, through them, that 
everything You have said is true. I am experiencing a profound peace, (5) and this peace 
flows from the witness of my conscience; that is to say, that I am always doing Your will, 

O Lord. 

1329 In the meditation on the goal of man, I understood that this truth is deeply rooted in my 
soul, and that my deeds are therefore the more perfect. I know why I was created. All 
creatures taken together cannot take the place, for me, of my Creator. I know that God is 
my ultimate goal and so, in whatever I undertake, I take God into account. 

1330 + Oh, how good it is to spend a retreat close to the most sweet heart of my God. I am in 
the wilderness with my Beloved. No one interrupts my sweet conversation with Flim. 



300 




1331 Jesus, You Yourself have deigned to lay the foundations of my sanctity, as my 
cooperation has not amounted to much. You have taught me to set no store on the use 
and choice of created things, because my heart is, of itself, so weak. And this is why I 
have asked You, O my Master, to take no heed of the pain of my heart, (6) but to cut 
away whatever might hold me back from the path of love. I did not understand You, Lord, 
in times of sorrow, when You were effecting Your work in my soul; but today I understand 
You and rejoice in my freedom of spirit. Jesus Himself has seen to it that my heart has 
not been caught in the snares of any passion. I have come to know well from what 
dangers he has delivered me, and therefore my gratitude to my God knows no bounds. 

1332 Second day. As I was meditating on the sin of the Angels and their immediate 
punishment, I asked Jesus why the Angels had been punished as soon as they had 
sinned. I heard a voice: Because of their profound knowledge of God. No person 
on earth, even though a great saint, has such knowledge of God as an Angel has. 

Nevertheless, to me who am so miserable, You have shown Your mercy, O God, and 
this, time and time again. You carry me in the bosom of Your mercy and forgive me every 
time that I ask Your forgiveness with a contrite heart. 

1333 Profound silence engulfs my soul. Not a single cloud hides the sun from me. I lay myself 
(7) entirely open to its rays, that His love may effect a complete transformation in me. I 
want to come out of this retreat a saint, and this, in spite of everything; that is to say, in 
spite of my wretchedness, I want to become a saint, and I trust that God’s mercy can 
make a saint even out of such misery as I am, because I am utterly in good will. In spite 
of all my defeats, I want to go on fighting like a holy soul and to comport myself like a holy 
soul. I will not be discouraged by anything, just as nothing can discourage a soul who is 
holy. I want to live and die like a holy soul, with my eyes fixed on You, Jesus, stretched 
out on the Cross, as the model for my actions, I used to look around me for examples 
and found nothing which sufficed, and I noticed that my state of holiness seemed to falter. 
But from now on, my eyes are fixed on You. O Christ, who are for me the best of guides, 

I am confident that You will bless my efforts. 

1334 + In the meditation of sin, the Lord gave me to know all the malice of sin and the 
ingratitude that is contained in it. I feel within my soul a great aversion for even the 
smallest sin. (8) However, the eternal truths I have been meditating on do not bring even 
a shadow of disturbance or unrest into my soul. And although I take them very much to 
heart, my contemplation is not thereby interrupted. In this contemplation, it is not 
transports of the heart that I experience, but a depth of peace and a wonderful silence. 
Although my love is great, I experience an extraordinary equilibrium. Even receiving the 
Eucharist causes no feeling, but brings me to a depth of union where my love and God’s 
love are fused together as one. 

1335 + Jesus has made known to me that I should pray for the sisters who are making the 
retreat. During prayer, I learned of the struggle that some are undergoing, and I 
redoubled my prayers. 

1336 + In this profound silence, I am better able to judge the condition of my soul. My soul is 
like clear water in which I can see everything: both my misery and the vastness of God’s 
graces. And owing to this true knowledge of itself, my spirit is strengthened in deep 
humility. I expose my heart to the action of Your grace like a crystal exposed to the rays 
of the sun. (9) May Your image be reflected in it, O my God, to the extent that it is 



301 




possible to be reflected in the heart of a creature. Let Your divinity radiate through me. O 
You who dwell in my soul. 

1337 As I was praying before the Blessed Sacrament and greeting the five wounds of Jesus, at 
each salutation I felt a torrent of graces gushing into my soul, giving me a foretaste of 
heaven and absolute confidence in God’s mercy. 

1338 As I write these words, I hear the cry of Satan: “She’s writing everything, she’s writing 
everything, and because of this we are losing so much! Do not write about the goodness 
of God; He is just!” And howling with fury, he vanished. 

1339 O merciful God, You do not despise us, but lavish Your graces on us continuously. You 
make us fit to enter Your kingdom, and in Your goodness You grant that human beings 
may fill the places vacated by the ungrateful angels. O God of great mercy, who turned 
Your sacred gaze away from the rebellious angels and turned it upon contrite man, (10) 
praise and glory be to Your unfathomable mercy, O God who do not despise the lowly 
heart. 

1340 My Jesus, despite these graces which You send upon me, I feel that my nature, ennobled 
though it be, is not completely stilled; and so I keep a constant watch. I must struggle 
with many faults, knowing well that it is not the struggle which debases one, but 
cowardice and failure. 

1341 When one’s health is poor, there is much one has to bear. For when one is ill, but not in 
bed, one is not considered to be ill. For many reasons, therefore, there are constant 
occasions for sacrifices, and sometimes big ones. I understand now that only in eternity 
will many things be revealed. But I also understand that if God demands a sacrifice, He 
does not withhold His grace, but gives it to the soul in abundance. 

1342 My Jesus, let my sacrifice burn before Your throne in all silence, but with the full force of 
love, as I beg You to have mercy on souls. 

1343 (11) Third day. In the meditation on death, I prepared myself as if for real death. I 
examined my conscience and searched all my affairs at the approach of death and, 
thanks be to grace, my affairs were directed toward that ultimate goal. This filled my 
heart with great gratitude to God, and I resolved to serve my God even more faithfully in 
the future. One thing alone is necessary: to put my old self to death and to begin a new 
life. In the morning, I prepared to receive Holy Communion as if it were to be the last in 
my life, and after Holy Communion I brought before my imagination my actual death, and 
I said the prayers for the dying and then the De Profundis for my own soul. My body was 
lowered into the grave, and I said to my soul, “See what has become of your body, a heap 
of dirt teeming with vermin - that is your inheritance.” 

1344 O merciful God, who still allow me to live, give me strength that I may live a new life, the 
life of the spirit, over which death has no dominion. And with that, my heart was renewed, 
and I began a new life while still here on earth, a life of love of God. Nevertheless, I do 
not forget that (12) I am weakness itself, though I do not doubt even for a moment that I 
will obtain the help of Your grace, O God. 



302 




1345 + Fourth day. O Jesus, I have been feeling extraordinarily well, close to Your Heart, 
during this retreat. Nothing disturbs the depths of my peace. With one eye, I gaze on the 
abyss of my misery, and with the other, on the abyss of Your mercy. 

1346 During Holy Mass, which was celebrated by Father Andrasz, I saw the Infant Jesus who, 
with hands outstretched toward us, was sitting in the chalice being used at Holy Mass. 
After gazing at me penetratingly, He spoke these words: As you see Me in this chalice, 
so I dwell in your heart. 

1347 + Holy Confession. After giving an account of my conscience, I was given the permission 
I asked for: To wear the bracelet for half an hour every day during Holy Mass, and in 
times of difficulty, to wear the belt for two hours. [Father said,] “Sister, persevere in this 
great faithfulness to the Lord Jesus.” 

1348 (13) Fifth day. When I entered the chapel this morning, I learned that Mother Superior 
has had some trouble on my account. This hurt me very much. After Holy Communion, I 
leaned my head on the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus and said, “O my Lord, I beg You, let 
all the consolation that I am experiencing through Your presence in my heart be poured 
out into the soul of my dear Mother Superior, who has had some trouble because of me, 
and this involuntarily on my part.” 

1349 Jesus comforted me, saying that both our souls had benefited from this. But I begged the 
Lord to deign to spare me from being the occasion of anyone’s suffering, as my heart 
could not bear this. 

1350 O white Host, You preserve my soul in whiteness; I fear the day when I might forsake 
You. You are the Bread of Angels, and thus also the Bread of Virgins. 

1351 Jesus, my most perfect model, with my eyes fixed on You, I will go through life in Your 
footsteps, adapting nature to grace, according to Your most holy will and Your light which 
illumines my soul, trusting completely in Your help. 



+ 

( 14 ) J. M. J. 

1 352 Chart of inner control 216 

Particular examen. 

Unity with the merciful Christ. Because I am united to Jesus, I must be faithful always 
and everywhere, and I must be interiorly united with the Lord, while exteriorly observing 
fidelity to the rule, particularly that of silence. 



1353 November 


victories 


- 53 


defeats 


- 2 


December 




-104 




- 


January 


« 


- 78 




- 1 


February 


victories 


59 


defeats 


- 1 


March 


it 


50 






April 


it 


61 







303 




May 

June 

July 

August 

September 

October 

1354 When I hesitate on how to act in some situations, I always ask Love. It advises best. 

1355 

(15) General Examen of Conscience October 25, 1937 

Victories Defeats 





Nov 


Dec 


Jan 


Feb 


Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct 






XI 


XII 


1 


II 


III 


IV V VI VII VII IX X 




Commandments of God 
Vows-poverty 








9 








Vows-chastity 








7 








Vows-obedience 




27 




7 








Rules 




7 












Love of neighbor 


38 


17 


73 


35 


30 


20 


1,1,1, 


Humility 


7 


39 


23 


34 


56 


25 


2, 3, 1,1, 6 


Patience 


23 


56 


50 


17 


80 


50 




Silence 


11 


45 


37 


28 


37 


20 




Neighbor’s 
good name 




15 


25 


3 


1 




1 


Holy Mass 














Holy Mass 6,2,1,12 


And Communion 


17 


12 


13 


7 




10 


Holy Comm. 1 ,(12) 


Meditation 


6 


5 




10 








Particular Examen 


7 


5 


11 








1 


Attitude towards God 
and Confessor 


5 






5 








- Superiors 

- Sisters 


7 












1,1 


and Students 




4 




7 








- Lay Persons 


20 


2 










2,1 



1356 (16) Sixth day. O my God, I am ready to accept Your will in every detail, whatever it 
may be. However You may direct me, I will bless You. Whatever You ask of me I will 
do with the help of Your grace. Whatever Your holy will regarding me might be, I accept 
it with my whole heart and soul, taking no account of what my corrupt nature tells me. 

1357 Once, when I was passing by a group of people, I asked the Lord if they were all in the 
state of grace, because I did not feel His sufferings. Because you do not feel My 
sufferings, it does not follow that they must all be in the state of grace. At times, I 
allow you to be aware of the condition of certain souls, and give you the grace of 
suffering solely because I use you as the instrument of their conversion. 

1358 Where there is genuine virtue, there must be sacrifice as well; one’s whole life must be 
a sacrifice. It is only by means of sacrifice that souls can become useful. It is my self- 
sacrifice which, in my relationship with my neighbor, can give glory to God, but God’s 
love must flow through this sacrifice, because everything is concentrated in this love 
and takes its value from it. 

1359 (17) Bear in mind that when you come out of this retreat, I shall be dealing with 
you as with a perfect soul. I want to hold you in My hand as a pliant tool, 
perfectly adapted to the completion of My works. 



304 




1360 O Lord, You who penetrate my whole being and the most secret depths of my soul, You 
see that I desire You alone and long only for the fulfillment of Your holy will, paying no 
heed to difficulties or sufferings or humiliations or to what other might think. 

1361 This firm resolution to become a saint is extremely pleasing to Me. I bless your 

efforts and will give you opportunities to sanctify yourself. Be watchful that you 
lose no opportunity that My providence offers you for sanctification. If you do 
not succeed in taking advantage of an opportunity, do not lose your peace, but 
humble yourself profoundly before Me and, with great trust, immerse yourself 
completely in My mercy. In this way, you gain more than you have lost, because 
more favor is granted to a humble soul than the soul itself asks for 

1362 (18) +Seventh day. I have come to a knowledge of my destiny; that is, an inward 
certainty that I will attain sanctity. This deep conviction has filled my soul with gratitude 
to God, and I have given back all the glory to God, because I know very well what I am 
of myself. 

1 363 I am coming out of this retreat thoroughly transformed by God’s love. My soul is 
beginning a new life, earnestly and courageously; although outwardly my life will not 
change, and no one will notice it, nevertheless, pure love is [now] the guide of my life 
and, externally, it is mercy which is its fruit. I feel that I have been totally imbued with 
God and, with this God, I am going back to my everyday life, so drab, tiresome and 
wearying, trusting that he whom I feel in my heart will change this drabness into my 
personal sanctity. 

In profound silence, close to Your merciful Heart, my soul is maturing during this retreat. 
In the clear rays of your love, my soul has lost its tartness (19) and has become a sweet 
and ripe fruit. 

1364 Now I can be wholly useful to the Church by my personal sanctity, which throbs with life 
in the whole Church, for we all make up one organism in Jesus. That is why I endeavor 
to make the soil of my heart bear good fruit. Although the human eye may perhaps 
never see it, there will nevertheless come a day when it will become apparent that many 
souls have been fed and will continue to be fed with this fruit. 

1365 O Eternal Love, You who enkindle a new life within me, a life of love and of mercy. 
Support me with Your grace, so that I may worthily answer Your call, so that what You 
Yourself have intended to accomplish in souls through me, might indeed be 
accomplished. 

My God, I see the radiance of eternal dawn. My whole soul bounds toward You, O 
Lord; nothing any longer holds me back, nothing ties me to earth. Help me, O Lord, to 
bear the rest of my days with patience. The sacrifice of my love burns incessantly 
before Your Majesty, but so silently that only Your divine eye sees it, O God, and no 
other creature is capable of perceiving it. 

1366 (20) O my Lord, although so many things occupy me, although I have this work at heart, 
although I desire the triumph of the Church and the salvation of souls, although all the 
persecutions of Your faithful ones affect me, although the fall of each soul is painful to 



305 




me, yet, above and beyond all this, I still have a profound peace in my soul which 
neither triumphs nor desires nor adversities can disturb because, for me, You are above 
all dispensations, my Lord and my God. 

1367 Eighth day. O my Lord, while calling to mind all Your blessings, in the presence of Your 
Most Sacred Heart, I have felt the need to be particularly grateful for so many graces 
and blessings from God. I want to plunge myself in thanksgiving before the Majesty of 
God and to continue in this prayer of thanksgiving for seven days and seven nights; and 
although I will outwardly carry out all my duties, my spirit will nonetheless stand 
continually before the Lord, and all my exercises will be imbued with the spirit of 
thanksgiving. Each evening, I will kneel for a half hour in my cell, alone with the Lord. 

As often as I shall awake at night, (21) I shall steep myself in a prayer of thanksgiving. 

In this way I want to repay, at least in some small way, for the immensity of God’s 
blessings. 

1368 However, in order to make all this more pleasing in the eyes of God and to remove the 
least shadow of doubt from my mind, I went to my spiritual director [Father Andrasz] and 
revealed these desires of my soul to him; that is to say, the desire to be steeped in such 
thanksgiving. I received permission for everything, except that I should not force myself 
to pray at night should I awaken. 

1369 With what great joy I returned to the convent! And on the next day I began this great act 
of thanksgiving by renewing my vows. My soul became thoroughly immersed in God, 
and there issued from my whole being but one single flame of gratitude and 
thanksgiving to God. There were not many words, because God’s blessings, like a 
fierce fire, consumed my soul, and all sufferings and sorrows were like wood thrown into 
the flames, without which the fire would go out. I called upon all heaven and earth to 
join me in my act of thanksgiving. 

1370 (22) The retreat has come to an end, those beautiful days of communing alone with the 
Lord Jesus. I made this retreat in the way Jesus wanted me to make it, and as He had 
told me to on the first day of the retreat; that is, in the deepest peace, I meditated on 
God’s blessings, I have never made a retreat like this before. My soul was more 
profoundly strengthened by this peace than it would have been by any tremors or 
emotions. In the rays of love, I saw everything as it really is. 

Coming out of this retreat, I feel thoroughly transformed by God’s love. 

1371 O Lord, deify my actions so that they will merit eternity; although my weakness is great, 

I trust in the power of Your grace, which will sustain me. 

1372 My Jesus, You know that from my earliest years I have wanted to become a great saint; 
that is to say, I have wanted to love You with a love so great that there would be no soul 
who has hitherto loved You so. At first these desires of mine were kept secret, (23) and 
only Jesus knew of them. But today I cannot contain them within my heart; I would like 
to cry out to the whole world, “Love God, because He is good and great is His mercy!” 

1373 O humdrum days, filled with darkness, I look upon you with a solemn and festive eye. 
How great and solemn is the time that gives us the chance to gather merits for eternal 
heaven! I understand how the saints made use of it. 



306 




1374 October 30, 1937. Today, during the religious ceremonies 217 taking place during Mass, 
and the second day of thanksgiving, I saw the Lord Jesus in great beauty, and He said 

to me, My daughter, I have not released you from taking action. I answered, “Lord, 
my hand is too feeble for such work.” Yes, I know; but joined with My right hand you 
will accomplish everything. Nevertheless, be obedient, be obedient to the 
confessors. I will give them light on how to direct you. “Lord, I already wanted to 
begin the work in Your Name, but Father S. keeps putting it off.” Jesus answered me, I 
know this; so do just what is within your power, but you must never withdraw 
your efforts. 

1375 (24) November 1, 1937. 

After Vespers today, there was a procession to the cemetery. I could not go, because I 
was on duty at the gate. But that did not stop me at all from praying for the souls. As 
the procession was returning from the cemetery to the chapel, my soul felt the presence 
of many souls. I understood the great justice of God, how each one had to pay off the 
debt to the last cent. 

1376 The Lord gave me an occasion to practice patience through a particular person with 
whom I have to carry out a certain task. She is slower than anyone I have ever seen. 
One has to arm oneself with great patience to listen to her tedious talk. 

1377 November 5. This morning, five unemployed men came to the gate and insisted on 
being let in. When Sister N. had argued with them for quite a while and could not make 
them go away, she then came to the chapel (25) to find Mother [Irene], who told me to 
go. When I was still a good way from the gate I could hear them banging loudly. At 
first, I was overcome with doubt and fear, and I did not know whether to open the gate 
or, like Sister N., to answer them through the little window. But suddenly I heard a voice 
in my soul saying, Go and open the gate and talk to them as sweetly as you talk to 
Me. 

I opened the gate at once and approached the most menacing of them and began to 
speak to them with such sweetness and calm that they did not know what to do with 
themselves. And they too began to speak gently and said, “Well, it’s too bad that the 
convent can’t give us work.” And they went away peacefully. I felt clearly that Jesus, 
whom I had received in Holy Communion just an hour before, had worked in their hearts 
through me. Oh, how good it is to act under God’s inspiration! 

1378 I felt worse today, and I went to Mother Superior, intending to ask her for permission to 
go to bed. However, before I could ask for permission, (26) Mother Superior said to me, 
“Sister, you must somehow manage by yourself at the gate, because I am taking the girl 
to work at the cabbage, since there is no one else for the cabbage.” I said - good, and 
left the room. When I got to the gate, I felt unusually strong, and I was at my post all 
day and felt well. I experienced the power of holy obedience. 

1 379 November 1 0, [1 937], When Mother [Irene] showed me the booklet with the Chaplet, 
the litany and the novena, I asked her to let me look it over. As I was glancing through 
it, Jesus gave me to know interiorly: Already there are many souls who have been 



307 




drawn to My love by this image. My mercy acts in souls through this work. I 

learned that many souls had experienced God’s grace. 

1380 I learned that Mother Superior would have quite a heavy cross to bear, together with 
physical suffering, but that it would not last long. 218 

1381 ( 27 ) + It occurred to me to take my medicine, not by the spoonful, but just a little at a 
time, because it was expensive. Instantly, I heard a voice, My daughter, I do not like 
such conduct. Accept with gratitude everything I give you through the superiors, 
and in this way you will please Me more. 

1382 + When Sister Dominic 219 died at about one o’clock in the night, she came to me and 
gave me to know that she was dead. I prayed fervently for her. In the morning, the 
sisters told me that she was no longer alive, and I replied that I knew, because she had 
visited me. The sister infirmarian [Sister Chrysostom] asked me to help dress her. And 
then when I was alone with her, the Lord gave me to know that she was still suffering in 
purgatory. I redoubled my prayers for her. However, despite the zeal with which I 
always pray for our deceased sisters, I got mixed up as regards the days, and instead of 
offering three days of prayer, as the rule directs us to do, by mistake I offered only two 
days. On the fourth day, she gave me to know that I still owed her prayers, and that she 
was in need of them. I immediately ( 28 ) formed the intention of offering the whole day 
for her, and not just that day but much more, as love of neighbor dictated to me. 

1383 Because Sister Dominic, after her death, gave the appearance of looking so well, some 
sisters said that perhaps she was only in a coma, and one of the sisters suggested to 
me that we ought to go and put a mirror to her mouth to see if it would mist, because it 
would if she were alive. I said all right, and we did as we said, but the mirror did not 
mist, although it seemed to us as if it had. Nevertheless, the Lord gave me to know how 
much this had displeased Him, and I was severely admonished never to act against my 
inner convictions. I humbled myself profoundly before the Lord and asked His pardon. 

1384 I see a certain priest [probably Father Sopocko] whom God loves greatly, but whom 
Satan hates terribly because he is leading many souls to a high degree of sanctity and 
has ( 29 ) regard only for God’s glory. But I keep asking God that his patience with those 
who constantly oppose him might not run out. Where Satan himself can do no harm, he 
uses people. 

1385 November 19. After Communion today, Jesus told me how much He desires to come to 
human hearts. I desire to unite Myself with human souls; My great delight is to 
unite Myself with souls Know, My daughter, that when I come to a human heart in 
Holy Communion, My hands are full of all kinds of graces which I want to give to 
the soul. But souls do not even pay any attention to Me; they leave Me to Myself 
and busy themselves with other things. Oh, how sad I am that souls do not 
recognize Love! They treat Me as a dead object. I answered Jesus, “O Treasure of 
my heart, the only object of my love and entire delight of my soul, I want to adore You in 
my heart as You are adored on the throne of Your eternal glory. My love wants to make 
up to You ( 30 ) at least in part for the coldness of so great a number of souls. Jesus, 
behold my heart which is for You a dwelling place to which no one else has entry. You 
alone repose in it as in a beautiful garden. 



308 




1386 O my Jesus, farewell; I must go already to take up my tasks. But I will prove my love for 
You with sacrifice, neither neglecting nor letting any chance for practicing it slip by.” 

When I left the chapel, Mother Superior [Irene] said to me, “You will not go to the 
catechetical lecture, Sister, but will remain on duty.” Very well, Jesus; I thus had, 
throughout the day, very many opportunities for sacrifice. I omitted none, owing to the 
strength of spirit I drew from Holy Communion. 

1387 There are times in life when a soul is in such a state that it does not seem to understand 
human speech. Everything tires it, and nothing but ardent prayer will put it as ease. In 
fervent prayer the soul finds relief and, even if it wanted explanation from creatures, 
these would only make it more restless. 

1388 (31) + During one time of prayer, I learned how pleasing to God was the soul of Father 
Andrasz. He is a true child of God. It is rare that divine sonship shines forth so clearly 
in a soul, and this because he has a special devotion to the Mother of God. 

1389 O my Jesus, although I have such very strong impulsions, I am to act on them slowly, 
and this only in order not to spoil Your work with my haste. O my Jesus, You give me to 
know Your mysteries, and You want me to transmit them to other souls. Soon now it 
will be possible for me to act. At the moment of apparent absolute destruction, my 
mission, now no longer hindered by anything, will begin. Such is the will of God in this, 
and it will not change; although many persons oppose it, nothing will change God’s will. 

1390 I see Father Sopocko, how his mind is busily occupied and working in God’s cause in 
order to present the wishes of god to the officials of the Church. As a result of his 
efforts, a new (32) light will shine in the Church of God for the consolation of souls. 
Although for the present his soul is filled with bitterness, as though that were to be the 
reward for his efforts in the cause of the Lord, this will not however be the case. I see 
his joy, which nothing will diminish. God will grant him some of this joy already here on 
earth. I have never before come upon such great faithfulness to God as distinguishes 
this soul. 

1391 During supper in the refectory today, I felt God’s gaze in the depths of my heart. Such a 
vivid presence pervaded my soul that, for a while, I had no idea where I was. The 
sweet presence of God kept filling my soul and, at times, I could not understand what 
the sisters were saying to me. 

1392 All the good that is in me is due to Holy Communion. I owe everything to it. I feel that 

this holy fire has transformed me completely. Oh, how happy I am to be a dwelling 
place for You, O Lord! My heart is a temple in which You dwell continually 

+ 

(33) J. M. J. 

1393 Jesus, delight of my soul, Bread of Angels, 

My whole being is plunged in You, 

And I live Your divine life as do the elect in heaven, 

And the reality of this life will not cease, though I be laid in the grave. 



309 




Jesus-Eucharist, Immortal God, 

Who dwell in my heart without cease, 

When I possess You, death itself can do me no harm, 

Love tells me that I will see You at life’s end. 

Permeated by Your divine life, 

I gaze with assurance at the heavens thrown open for me, 

And death will shame-facedly go away, empty-handed, 

For Your divine life is contained within my soul. 

And although by Your holy will, O Lord, 

Death is to touch my body, 

I want this dissolution to come as quickly as possible, 

For through it I am entering eternal life. 

Jesus-Eucharist, life of my soul, 

You have raised me up to the eternal spheres, 

And this, by Your agony and death midst terrible tortures. 

(34) 26 [November 1937], 

1 394 Monthly one-day retreat. 

In the course of this retreat, the Lord has given me the light to know His will more 
profoundly and to abandon myself completely to the holy will of God. This light has 
confirmed me in profound peace, making me understand that I should fear nothing 
except sin. Whatever God sends me, I accept with complete submission to His holy 
will. Wherever He puts me, I will try faithfully to do His holy will, as well as His wishes, 
to the extent of my power to do so, even if the will of God were to be as hard and 
difficult for me as was the will of the Heavenly Father to His Son, as He prayed in the 
Garden of Olives. I have come to see that if the will of the Heavenly Father was fulfilled 
in this way in His well-beloved Son, it will be fulfilled in us in exactly the same way: by 
suffering, persecution, abuse, disgrace. It is through all this that my soul becomes like 
unto Jesus. And the greater the sufferings, the more I see that I am becoming like 
Jesus. This is the surest way. If some other way were better, Jesus would have shown 
it to me. Sufferings in no way (35) take away my peace. On the other hand, although I 
enjoy profound peace, that peace does not lessen my experience of suffering. Although 
my face is often bowed to the ground and my tears flow profusely, at the same time my 
soul is filled with profound peace and happiness 

1395 I want to hide myself in Your Most Merciful Heart as a dewdrop does in a flower 
blossom. Enclose me in this blossom against the frost of the world. No one can 
conceive the happiness which my heart enjoys in its solitude, alone with God. 

1396 Today I heard a voice in my soul: Oh, if sinners knew My mercy, they would not 
perish in such great numbers. Tell sinful souls not to be afraid to approach Me; 
speak to them of My great mercy. 

1397 The Lord said to me, The loss of each soul plunges Me into mortal sadness. You 
always console Me when you (36) pray for sinners. The prayer most pleasing to 



310 




Me is prayer for the conversion of sinners. Know, My daughter, that this prayer is 
always heard and answered. 

1398 Advent is approaching. I want to prepare my heart for the coming of the Lord Jesus by 
silence and recollection of spirit, uniting myself with the Most Holy Mother and faithfully 
imitating Her virtue of silence, by which She found pleasure in the eyes of God Himself. 

I trust that, by Her side, I will persevere in this resolution. 

1399 When I entered the chapel for a moment in the evening, I felt a terrible thorn in my 
head. This lasted for a short time, but the pricking was so painful that in an instant my 
head dropped onto the communion rail. It seemed to me that the thorn had thrust itself 
into my brain. But all this is nothing; it is all for the sake of souls, to obtain God’s mercy 
for them. 

1400 I live from one hour to the next and am not able to get along in any other way. I want to 
make the best possible use of the present moment, faithfully accomplishing everything 
that it gives me. In all things, I depend on God with unwavering trust. 

1401 ( 37 ) Yesterday I received a letter from Father Sopocko. I learned that God’s work is 
progressing, however slowly. I am very happy about this, and I have redoubled my 
prayers for this entire work. I have come to learn that, for the present, so far as my 
participation in the work is concerned, the Lord is asking for prayer and sacrifice. Action 
on my part could indeed thwart God’s plans, as Father Sopocko wrote in yesterday’s 
letter. O my Jesus, grant me the grace to be an obedient instrument in Your hands. I 
have learned from this letter how great is the light which God grants to this priest. This 
confirms me in the conviction that God will carry out this work through him despite the 
mounting obstacles. I know well that the greater and the more beautiful the work is, the 
more terrible will be the storms that rage against it. 

1402 God, in his unfathomable decrees, often allows it to be that those who have expended 
most effort in accomplishing some work do not enjoy its fruits here on earth; God 
reserves all their joy for eternity. But for all that, God sometimes lets them know how 
much their efforts please Him. ( 38 ) And such moments strengthen them for further 
struggles and ordeals. These are the souls that bear closest resemblance to the Savior 
who, in the work which He founded here on earth, tasted nothing but bitterness. 

1403 O my Jesus, may You be blessed for everything! I rejoice that Your most holy will is 
being accomplished. That is quite enough to make me happy. 

1404 Hidden Jesus, in You lies all my strength. From my most tender years, the Lord Jesus 
in the Blessed Sacrament has attracted me to Himself. Once, when I was seven years 
old, at a Vesper Service, conducted before the Lord Jesus in the monstrance, the love 
of God was imparted to me for the first time and filled my little heart; and the Lord gave 
me understanding of divine things. From that day until this, my love for the hidden God 
has been growing constantly to the point of closest intimacy. All the strength of my 
souls flows from the Blessed Sacrament. I spend all my free moments in conversation 
with Him. He is my Master. 

1 405 (39) November 30, 1 937. When I was going upstairs this evening, a strange dislike for 
everything having to do with God suddenly came over me. At that, I heard Satan who 



311 




said to me, “Think no more about this work. God is not as merciful as you say He is. 

Do not pray for sinners, because they will be damned all the same, and by this work of 
mercy you expose your own self to damnation. Talk no more about this mercy of God 
with your confessor and especially not with Father Sopocko and Father Andrasz.” At 
this point, the voice took the appearance of my Guardian Angel, and at that moment I 
replied, 

“I know who you are; the father of lies [cf. Jn. 8:44].” I made the sign of the cross, and 
the angel vanished with great racket and fury. 

1406 Today, the Lord gave me to know interiorly that He would never abandon me. He gave 
me to know His majesty and His holiness as well as His love and mercy towards me; 
and He gave me a deeper knowledge of my own wretchedness. However, this great 
misery of mine does not deprive me of trust. On the contrary, the better I have come to 
know my own misery, the stronger has become my trust (40) in God’s mercy. I have 
come to understand how all this depends on the Lord. I know that no one will touch a 
single hair of my head without His willing it. 

1407 When I was receiving Holy Communion today, I noticed in the cup a Living Host, which 
the priest gave to me. When I returned to my place I asked the Lord, “Why was one 
host alive, since you are equally alive under each of the species? The Lord answered 

me, That is so. I am the same under each of the species, but not every soul 
receives Me with the same living faith as you do, My daughter, and therefore I 
cannot act in their souls as I do in yours. 

1408 I was present at Holy Mass celebrated by Father Sopocko. During the Mass, I saw the 
Infant Jesus who, touching the priest’s forehead with His finger, said to me, His 

thought is closely united to Mine, so be at peace about what concerns My work. 

(41) I will not let him make a mistake, and you should do nothing without his 
permission. This filled my soul with great peace as regards everything that has to do 
with this work. 

1409 + Today the Lord Jesus is giving me an awareness of Himself and of His most tender 
love and care for me. He is bringing me to understand deeply how everything depends 
on His will, and how He allows certain difficulties precisely for our merit, so that our 
fidelity might be clearly manifest. And through this, I have been given strength for 
suffering and self-denial. 

1 41 0 Today [December 7, 1 937] is the eve of the Feast of the Immaculate Conception of the 
Virgin Mary. During the midday meal, in an instant, God gave me to know the 
greatness of my destiny; that is, His closeness, which for all eternity will not be taken 
away from me, and He did this in such a vivid and clear fashion that I remained 
wrapped up in His living presence for a long time, humbling myself before His 
greatness. 

+ 

(42) J. M. J. 

1411 O Divine Spirit, Spirit of truth and of light, 

Dwell ever in my soul by Your divine grace. 

May Your breath dissipate the darkness, 



312 




And in this light may good deeds be multiplied. 

O divine Spirit, Spirit of love and of mercy, 

Your pour the balm of trust into my heart, 

Your grace confirms my soul in good, 

Giving it the invincible power of constancy. 

O Divine Spirit, Spirit of peace and of joy, 

You invigorate my thirsting heart 

And pour into it the living fountain of God’s love, 

Making it intrepid for battle. 

0 Divine Spirit, my soul’s most welcome guest, 

For my part, I want to remain faithful to You; 

Both in days of joy and in the agony of suffering, 

1 want always, O Spirit of God, to live in Your presence. 

O Divine Spirit, who pervade my whole being 
And give me to know Your Divine, Triune Life, 

And lead me into the mystery of Your Divine Being, 

Initiating me into Your Divine Essence, 

Thus united to You, I will live a life without end. 

1 41 2 (43) + It is with great zeal that I have prepared for the celebration of the Feast of the 
Immaculate Conception of the Mother of god. I have made an extra effort to keep 
recollected in spirit and have meditated on that unique privilege of Our Lady. And thus 
my heart was complete drowned in Her, thanking God for having accorded this great 
privilege to Mary. 

1413 I prepared not only by means of the novena said in common by the whole community, 
but I also made a personal effort to salute Her a thousand times each day, saying a 
thousand “Hail Marys” for nine days in Her praise. 

+ This is now the third time I have said such a novena to the Mother of God; that is, a 
novena made up of a thousand Aves each day. Thus the novena consists in nine 
thousand salutations. Although I have done this now three times in my life, and two of 
these while in the course of my duties, I have never failed in carrying out my tasks with 
the greatest exactitude. I have always said the novena outside the time of my 
exercises; that is to say, I have not said the Aves during Holy Mass or Benediction. 
Once, I made the novena while (44) lying ill in the hospital. Where there’s a will, there’s 
a way. Apart from recreation, I have only prayed and worked. I have not said a single 
unnecessary word during these days. Although I must admit that such a matter requires 
a good deal of attention and effort, nothing is too much when it comes to honoring the 
Immaculate Virgin. 

1414 The Feast of the Immaculate Conception. Before Holy Communion I saw the Blessed 
Mother inconceivably beautiful. Smiling at me She said to me, My daughter, at God’s 
command I am to be, in a special and exclusive way your Mother; but I desire that you, 
too, in a special way, be My child. 



313 




1415 / desire, My dearly beloved daughter, that you practice the three virtues that are dearest 
to Me - and most pleasing to God. The first is humility, humility, and once again 
humility; the second virtue, purity; the third virtue, love of God. As My daughter, you 
must especially radiate with these virtues. When the conversation ended, She pressed 
me to Her Heart and disappeared. When I regained the use of my senses, ( 45 ) my 
heart became so wonderfully attracted to these virtues; and I practice them faithfully. 
They are as though engraved in my heart. 

1 41 6 This has been a great day for me. During this day I remained as though in unceasing 
contemplation; the very thought of this grace drew me into further contemplation; and 
throughout the whole day I continued in thanksgiving which I never stopped, because 
each recollection of this grace caused my soul, ever anew, to lose itself in God... 

1417 O my Lord, my soul is the most wretched of all, and yet You stoop to it with such 
kindness! I see clearly Your greatness and my littleness, and therefore I rejoice that 
You are so powerful and without limit, and so I rejoice greatly at being so little. 

1418 O suffering Christ, I am going out to meet You. As Your bride, I must resemble You. 
Your cloak of ignominy must cover me too. O Christ, You know how ardently I desire to 
become like You. Grant that Your entire Passion may be my lot. May all ( 46 ) Your 
sorrow be poured into my heart. I trust that You will complete this in me in the way You 
deem most fitting. 

1419 + Today there was nocturnal adoration. I could not take part in it because of my poor 
health, but before I fell asleep I united myself with the sisters who were at adoration. 
Between four and five o’clock, I was suddenly awakened, and I heard a voice telling me 
to join those who were adoring at that time. I understood that there was among them a 
soul who was praying for me. 

1420 When I steeped myself in prayer, I was transported in spirit to the chapel, where I saw 
the Lord Jesus, exposed in the monstrance. In place of the monstrance, I saw the 
glorious face of the Lord, and He said to me, What you see in reality, these souls see 
through faith. Oh, how pleasing to Me is their great faith! You see, although 
there appears to be no trace of life in Me, in reality it is present in its fullness in 
each and every Host. But for Me to be able to act upon a soul, the soul must have 
faith. O how pleasing to Me is living faith! 

1421 Those taking part in adoration at that time (47) were Mother Superior and a few other 
sisters. But I recognized that it was Mother Superior’s prayer which had moved heaven, 
and I rejoiced that there are souls so pleasing to God. 

1422 When, during recreation the next day, I asked which sisters had been at adoration 
between four and five o’clock, one of the sisters cried out, “Why do you ask, Sister? 
Perhaps you had some revelation?” I fell silent and said no more; although I was asked 
by Mother Superior, I could not answer because it was not a suitable moment. 

1423 On a certain occasion, one of the sisters [Sister Damian Ziolek 220 ] confided to me that 
she wanted to choose a certain priest as her confessor. Very pleased, she shared the 
news with me and asked me to pray for that intention, and so I promised her to do so. 
During prayer, I learned that that soul would gain no spiritual profit from his direction. 



314 




1424 



1425 



1426 



1427 



1428 



And then the next time we met, she told me again of her great joy in being under his 
direction. 

I joined in her joy, but when she had (48) left I was severely rebuked. Jesus told me to 
tell her what He had given me to know during prayer, which I did at the first opportunity, 
although it cost me a great deal. 

Today, for a short while, I experienced the pain of the crown of thorns. I was praying for 
a certain soul before the Blessed Sacrament at the time. In an instant, I felt such a 
violent pain that my head dropped onto the altar rail. Although this moment was very 
brief, it was very painful. 

Christ, give me souls. Let anything You like happen to me, but give me souls in return. 

I want the salvation of souls. I want souls to know Your mercy. I have nothing left for 
myself, because I have given everything away to souls, with the result that on the day of 
judgment I will stand before you empty-handed, since I have given everything away to 
souls. Thus You will have nothing on which to judge me, and we shall meet on that day: 
Love and mercy 

+ 

(49) J. M. J. 

Hidden Jesus, life of my soul, 

Object of my ardent desire, 

Nothing will stifle Your love in my heart. 

The power of our mutual love assures me of that. 

Hidden Jesus, glorious pledge of my resurrection, 

All my life is concentrated in You. 

It is You, O Host, who empower me to love forever, 

And I know that You will love me as Your child in return. 

Hidden Jesus, my purest love, 

My life with You has begun already here on earth, 

And it will become fully manifest in the eternity to come, 

Because our mutual love will never change. 

Hidden Jesus, sole desire of my soul, 

You alone are to me more than the delights of heaven. 

My soul searches for You only, who are above all gifts and graces, 

You who come to me under the form of bread. 

Hidden Jesus, take at last to Yourself my thirsting heart 
Which burns for You with the pure fire of the Seraphim. 

I go through life in Your footsteps, invincible, 

With head held high, like a knight, feeble maid though I be. 

(50) For a month now, I have been feeling worse. Every time I cough, I feel my lungs 
disintegrating. It sometimes happens that I feel the complete decay of my own corpse. 

It is hard to express how great a suffering this is. Although I fully agree to this with my 
will, it is nevertheless a great suffering for nature, greater than wearing a hairshirt or a 



315 




flagellation to the point of blood. I have felt it especially when I was going to the 
refectory. It took great effort for me to eat anything because food made me sick. I also 
started at this time to suffer from pains in my intestines. All highly seasoned dished 
caused me such immense pain that I spent many nights writhing in pain and in tears, for 
the sake of sinners. 

1429 However, I asked my confessor what to do: whether I should continue to suffer this for 
the sake of sinners or ask the superiors for an exception by way of milder food. He 
decided that I should ask the superiors for milder food. And thus I followed his 
directions, seeing that this humiliation was more pleasing to God. 

1430 (51) One day, I began to doubt as to how it was possible to feel this continual decaying 
of the body and at the same time to be able to walk and work. Perhaps this was some 
kind of an illusion. Yet it cannot be an illusion, because it causes me such terrible 
pains. As I was thinking about this, one of the sisters came to converse with me. After 
a minute or two, she made a terribly wry face and said, “Sister, I smell a corpse here, as 
though it were decaying. O how dreadful it is!” I said to her, “Do not be frightened, 
Sister, that smell of a corpse comes from me.” She was very surprised and said she 
could not stand it any longer. After she had gone, I understood that God had allowed 
her to sense this so that I would have no doubt, but that He was no less than 
miraculously keeping the knowledge of this suffering from the whole community. O my 
Jesus, only You know the full depth of this sacrifice. 

1431 Nevertheless, when in the refectory I still had to bear being the object of the frequent 
suspicion that I was being fussy [about my food]. At such times, as always, I hasten to 
the Tabernacle and bow before the ciborium (52) and there draw strength to accept 
God’s will. That which I have written is not yet everything. 

1432 Today during confession, breaking the wafer with me spiritually, he gave me the 
following wishes: “Bet as faithful as you can to the grace of God; secondly, beg God’s 
mercy for yourself and for the whole world, because we are all in great need of God’s 
mercy.” 

1433 Two days before Christmas, these words were read in the refectory: “Tomorrow is the 
Birth of Jesus Christ according to the flesh.” 221 At these words, my soul was pierced by 
the light and love of God, and I gained deeper knowledge of the Mystery of the 
Incarnation of the Son of God. How great is the mercy of God contained in the Mystery 
of the Incarnation of the Son of God! 

1434 Today, the Lord gave me knowledge of His anger toward mankind which deserves to 
have its days shortened because of its sins. But I learned that the world’s existence is 
maintained by chosen souls; that is, the religious orders. Woe to the world when there 
will be a lack of religious orders! 

+ 

(53) J. M. J. 

1435 I perform each deed in the face of death. 

I do it now as I would want to see it in my last hour. 

Although life, like the wind, will pass swiftly by, 

No deed undertaken for God will perish. 



316 




I feel the complete decay of my organism, 

Although I am still living and working. 

Death will be no tragedy for me, 

Because I have long felt it. 

Although it is very unpleasant for nature 
To constantly smell one’s own corpse, 

Yet it is not so terrible when the soul is filled with God’s light, 

Because in it faith, hope, love and contrition are awakened. 

Daily I make great efforts 
To take part in community life, 

Thereby gaining graces for souls’ salvation, 

Shielding them by my sacrifice from the fire of hell. 

For the salvation of even a single soul 

Is worth the sacrifice of a lifetime 

And the bearing of the greatest sacrifices and torments, 

Seeing how great the glory it gives God. 

1436 (54) + Lord, although You often make known to me the thunders of Your anger, Your 
anger vanishes before lowly souls. Although You are great, Lord, You allow Yourself to 
be overcome by a lowly and deeply humble soul. O humility, the most precious of 
virtues, how few souls possess you! I see only a semblance of this virtue everywhere, 
but not the virtue itself. Lord, reduce me to nothingness in my own eyes that I may find 
grace in Yours. 

1437 + Christmas Eve [1937], After Holy Communion, the Mother of God gave me to 
experience the anxious concern she had in Her heart because of the Son of God. But 
this anxiety was permeated with such fragrance of abandonment to the will of god that I 
should call it rather a delight than an anxiety. I understood how my soul ought to accept 
the will of God in all things. It is a pity I cannot write this the way I experienced it. My 
soul was plunged in deep recollection all day long. Nothing could tear me away from 
this recollection, neither duties, nor the business I had with lay people. 

1438 (55) Before supper, I went into the chapel for a moment to break the wafer spiritually 
with those beloved persons, so dear to my heart, though far away. First, I steeped 
myself in a profound prayer and asked the Lord for graces for them all as a group and 
then for each one individually. Jesus gave me to know how much this pleased Him, and 
my soul was filled with even greater joy to see that God loves in a special way those 
whom we love. 

1439 + After I had gone into the refectory, during the reading, my whole being found itself 
plunged in God. Interiorly, I saw God looking at us with great pleasure. I remained 
alone with the Heavenly Father. At that moment, I had a deeper knowledge of the 
Three Divine persons, whom we shall contemplate for all eternity and, after millions of 
years, shall discover that we have just barely begun our contemplation. Oh, how great 
is the mercy of God, who allows man to participate in such a high (56) degree in His 



317 




divine happiness! At the same time, what great pain pierces my heart [at the thought] 
that so many souls have spurned this happiness. 

1440 When we began to share the wafer, a sincere and mutual love reigned among us. 
Mother Superior [Irene] expressed this wish to me: “Sister, the works of God proceed 
slowly, so do not be in a hurry.” In general, the sisters sincerely wished me great love, 
which is that which I desire above all. I saw that these wishes truly came from their 
hearts, except for one sister, who had a concealed malice in her wishes, although this 
did not cause me much pain, for my soul was pervaded by god. Yet this enlightened 
me as to why God communicates so little with a soul of this kind, and I learned that such 
a soul is always seeking itself, even in holy things. Oh, how good the Lord is in not 
letting me go astray! I know that He will guard me, even jealously, but only as long as I 
remain little, because it is with such that the great Lord likes to commune. As to proud 
souls, He watches them from afar and opposed them. 

1441 (57) Although I wanted to keep vigil for some time before the Midnight Mass, 222 1 could 
not do so. I fell asleep at once, and I was even feeling very weak. But when they rang 
the bells for Midnight Mass, I jumped to my feet at once and dressed, though with great 
difficulty, because I felt sick again and again. 

1442 + When I arrived at Midnight Mass, from the very beginning I steeped myself in deep 
recollection, during which time I saw the stable of Bethlehem filled with great radiance. 
The Blessed Virgin, all lost in the deepest of love, was wrapping Jesus in swaddling 
clothes, but Saint Joseph was still asleep. Only after the Mother of God put Jesus in the 
manger, did the light of God awaken Joseph, who was also praying. But after a while, I 
was left alone with the Infant Jesus who stretched out His little hands to me, and I 
understood that I was to take Him in my arms. Jesus pressed His head against my 
heart and gave me to know, by His profound gaze, how good He found it to be next to 
my heart. At that moment Jesus disappeared and the bell was ringing for Holy 
Communion. 

1443 (58) My soul was languishing with joy. But toward the end of the Mass, I felt so weak 
that I had to leave the chapel and go to my cell, as I felt unable to take part in the 
community tea. But my joy throughout the whole Christmas Season was immense, 
because my soul was unceasingly united with the Lord. I have come to know that every 
soul would like to have divine comforts, but is by no means willing to forsake human 
comforts, whereas these two things cannot be reconciled. 

1444 During this Christmas Season, I have sensed that certain souls have been praying for 
me. I rejoice that such spiritual union and knowledge exist already here on earth. O my 
Jesus, praise be to You for all this! 

1445 In the greatest torments of soul I am always alone, but no - not alone, for I am with You, 

Jesus; but here I am speaking about [other] people. None of them under-stands my 
heart, but this does not surprise me anymore, whereas I used to be surprised when my 
intentions (59) were condemned and wrongly interpreted; no, this does not surprise me 
now at all. People do not know how to perceive the soul. They see the body, and they 
judge according to the body. But as distant as heaven is from earth, so distant are 
God’s thoughts from our thoughts. I myself have experienced that quite often it 
happens that [ ] 



318 




1446 



The Lord said to me, It should be of no concern to you how anyone else acts; you 
are to be My living reflection, through love and mercy. I answered, “Lord, but they 
often take advantage of my goodness.” That makes no difference, My daughter. 
That is no concern of yours. As for you, be always merciful toward other people, 
and especially toward sinners. 

1447 + Oh, how painful it is to Me that souls so seldom unite themselves to Me in Holy 
Communion. I wait for souls, and they are indifferent toward Me. I love them 
tenderly and sincerely, and they distrust Me. I want to lavish My graces on them, 
and they do not want to accept them. They treat Me as a dead object, whereas 
(60) My Heart is full of love and mercy. In order that you may know at least some 
of My pain, imagine the most tender of mothers who has great love for her 
children, while those children spurn her love. Consider her pain. No one is in a 
position to console her. This is but a feeble image and likeness of My love. 

1448 Write, speak of My mercy. Tell souls where they are to look for solace; that is, in 
the Tribunal of Mercy [the Sacrament of Reconciliation] There the greatest miracles 
take place [and] are incessantly repeated. To avail oneself of this miracle, it is 
not necessary to go on a great pilgrimage or to carry out some external 
ceremony; it suffices to come with faith to the feet of My representative and to 
reveal to him one’s misery, and the miracle of Divine Mercy will be fully 
demonstrated. Were a soul like a decaying corpse so that from a human 
standpoint, there would be no [hope of] restoration and everything would already 
be lost, it is not so with God. The miracle of Divine Mercy restores that soul in 
full. Oh, how miserable are those who do not take advantage of the miracle of 
God’s mercy! You will call out in vain, but it will be too late. 



+ 

(61) J. M. J. 

The Year 1938 
The First of January 

1449 Welcome to you, New Year, in the course of which my perfection will be 
accomplished. 223 Thank You in advance, O Lord, for everything Your goodness will 
send me. Thank You for the cup of suffering from which I shall daily drink. Do not 
diminish its bitterness, O Lord, but strengthen my lips that, while drinking of this 
bitterness, they may know how to smile for love of You, my Master. I thank You for 
Your countless comforts and graces that flow down upon me each day like the morning 
dew, silently, imperceptibly, which no curious eye may notice, and which are known only 
to You and me, O Lord. For all this, I thank You as of today because, at the moment 
when You hand me the cup, my heart may not be capable of giving thanks. 

1450 So today I submit myself completely and with loving consent to Your holy will, O Lord, 
and to Your most wise decrees, which are always full of clemency and mercy for me, 
though at times I can (62) neither understand nor fathom them. O my Master, I 
surrender myself completely to You, who are the rudder of my soul; steer it Yourself 



319 




according to Your divine wishes. I enclose myself in Your most compassionate Heart, 
which is a sea of unfathomable mercy. 

1451 + I am ending the old year with suffering and beginning the new one with suffering as 
well. Two days before the new year, I had to go to bed, I was feeling very bad, and a 
violent cough was weakening me. And together with this, a constant pain in my 
intestines and nausea had brought me to the point of exhaustion. Although I could not 
join in community prayer, 224 1 united myself spiritually with the whole community. When 
the sisters got up at eleven o’clock at night to keep vigil and welcome the New Year, I 
had been writhing in agony since nightfall, and this lasted until midnight. I was uniting 
my sufferings to the prayers of the sisters who were keeping vigil in the chapel and 
atoning to God for the offences of sinners. 

1 452 When the clock struck twelve, my soul immersed itself more deeply in recollection, and I 
heard a voice in my soul: (63) Do not fear, My little child, you are not alone. Fight 
bravely, because My arm is supporting you; fight for the salvation of souls, 
exhorting them to trust in My mercy, as that is your task in this life and in the life 
to come. After these words, I received a deeper understanding of divine mercy. Only 
that soul who wants it will be damned, for God condemns no one. 

1453 Today is the Feast of the New Year. I felt so bad in the morning that I barely managed 
to go to the next cell to receive Holy Communion. 225 I could not go to Mass because I 
felt so sick, and I made my thanksgiving in bed too. I wanted so much to go to Mass 
and then to confession to Father Andrasz, but I felt so bad that I could go neither to 
Mass nor to confession. And because of this my soul suffered a good deal. 

After breakfast, the Sister Infirmarian [Sister Chrysostom] came along and asked, 

“Sister, why didn’t you go to Mass?” IN answered that I couldn’t. She shook her head 
disdainfully and said, “Such a great Feast Day, Sister, and you don’t even go to Mass!” 
and she left my cell. I had been in bed for two days, writhing in pain, and she hadn’t 
visited me; and when she did come, (64) on the third day, she did not even ask if I were 
able to get up, but asked irritably why I hadn’t got up for Mass. When I was alone, I 
tried to get up, but I was seized again with sickness, and so I stayed in bed with a calm 
conscience. Yet my heart had plenty to offer the Lord, joining itself spiritually to Him 
during the second Mass. After the second Mass, Sister Infirmarian returned to me, but 
this time in her capacity as infirmarian, and with a thermometer. But I had no fever, 
although I was seriously ill and unable to rise. So there was another sermon to tell me 
that I should not capitulate to illness. I answered her that I knew that here one was 
regarded as seriously ill only when one was in one’s last agony. However, knowing that 
she was about to give me a lecture, I replied that at the present time I was in no need of 
being incited to greater zeal. And once again, I remained alone in my cell. 

My heart was crushed with sorrow, and bitterness flooded my soul, and I repeated these 
words: “Welcome New Year; welcome, cup of bitterness.” My Jesus, my heart is eager 
for You, and yet the gravity of my illness prevents me from participating physically (65) 
in the community prayers, and I am suspected of being lazy. My sufferings are 
becoming greater. After dinner, Mother Superior [Irene] looked in for a moment, but she 
left very soon. I intended to ask to have Father Andrasz come to my cell to hear my 
confession, but I restrained myself from making the request for two reasons: first, not to 
give occasion for murmuring, as had happened above in respect to Holy Mass; and 



320 




secondly, because I would not even be able to make the confession, since I felt I would 
burst into tears like a little child. A while later, one of the sisters came along and again 
reproved me: “There’s some milk with butter in the oven, Sister; why don’t you drink it?” 
I answered that there was no one to bring it to me. 

1454 + When night fell, the physical sufferings increased and were joined by moral sufferings. 
Night and suffering. The solemn silence of the night made it possible for me to suffer 
freely. My body was stretched on the wood of the cross. I writhed in terrible pain until 
eleven o’clock. I went in spirit to the Tabernacle and uncovered the ciborium, leaning 
my head on the rim of the cup, and all my tears (66) flowed silently toward the Heart of 
Him who alone understands what pain and suffering is. And I experienced the 
sweetness of this suffering, and my soul came to desire this sweet agony, which I would 
not have exchanged for all the world’s treasures. The Lord gave me strength of spirit 
and love towards those through whom these sufferings came. This then was the first 
day of the year. 

1455 Also on this day I felt the prayer of a beautiful soul [probably Father Sopocko or Father 
Andrasz] who was praying for me and giving me, in spirit, his priestly blessing. I 
answered in return with my own ardent prayer. 

1456 + O most gracious Lord, how merciful it is on Your part to judge each one according to 
his conscience and his discernment, and not according to people’s talk. My spirit 
delights and feeds more and more on Your wisdom, which I am getting to know more 
and more deeply. And in this, the vastness of Your mercy becomes more and more 
manifest to me. O my Jesus, the effect of all this knowledge on my soul is that I am 
being transformed into a flame of love towards You, my God. 

1457 (67) + January 2, 1938. As I was preparing for Holy Communion today, Jesus 
demanded that I should write more; not only about the graces which He grants me, but 
also about external matters, and this for the consolation of many souls. 

1458 + After that night of suffering, when the priest [Father Matzanger 226 ] entered my cell with 
the lord Jesus, such fervor filled my whole being that I felt that if the priest had tarried a 
little longer, Jesus himself would have leaped out of his hand and come to me. 

1459 After Holy Communion the Lord said to me, If the priest had not brought Me to you, I 
would have come Myself under the same species. My daughter, your sufferings 
of this night obtained the grace of mercy for an immense number of souls. 

1460 + My daughter, I have something to tell you. I replied, “Speak, Jesus, for I thirst for 
Your words.” It displeases Me that, because the sisters were murmuring, you did 
not ask to have Father Andrasz hear your confession in your cell. Know that, 
because of this, you gave them even greater cause for murmuring. (68) Very 
humbly I begged the Lord’s forgiveness, O my Master, rebuke me; do not overlook my 
faults, and do not let me err. 

1461 + O my Jesus, when I am misunderstood and my soul is in anguish, I want to stay a 
while alone with You. The words of mortals give me no comfort. Do not send me, O 
Lord, such messengers as speak only for themselves and say what their own nature 
dictates to them. Such consolers make me very tired. 



321 




1 462 January 6, 1 938. Today, when the chaplain [Father Theodore] brought the Lord Jesus, 
a light issued from the Host, its light striking my heart and filling me with a great fire of 
love. Jesus was letting me know that I should answer the inspirations of grace with 
more faithfulness, and that my vigilance should be more subtle. 

1463 + The Lord also gave me to know that many bishops were considering the question of 
this Feast, as well as a certain lay person. Some were enthusiastic about this work of 
God, while others regarded it with disbelief; but in spite of everything, the result was 
great glory for the ( 69 ) work of God. Mother Irene and Mother Mary Joseph were giving 
some kind of a report to these dignitaries, but they were being questioned, not so much 
about the work, as about myself.^ 27 As regards the work itself, there was no doubt, 
since the glory of God was already being proclaimed. 

1464 I feel much better today. I was glad I would be able to meditate more during the Holy 
Hour. Then I heard a voice: You will not be in good health. Do not put off the 
Sacrament of Penance, because this displeases Me. Pay little attention to the murmurs 
of those around you. This surprised me, because I am feeling better today, but I gave it 
no more thought. When the sister switched off the light, I began the holy Hour. But 
after a while something went wrong with my heart. I suffered in silence until eleven 
o’clock, but then I began to feel so bad that I woke up Sister N. [probably Sister 
Fabiola], who is my roommate, and she gave me some drops, which brought me a little 
relief so that I could lie down. I now understand the Lord’s warning. I decided to call 
any priest at all, the next day, and to open ( 70 ) the secrets of my soul to him. But that 
was not all, for while I was praying for sinners and offering all my sufferings for them, 
the Evil Spirit could not stand that. 

1465 Taking the form of an apparition he said, “Do not pray for sinners, but for yourself, for 
you will be damned.” Paying no attention to Satan, I continued to pray with redoubled 
fervor for sinners. The Evil Spirit howled with fury, “Oh, if I had power over you!” and 
disappeared. I saw that my suffering and prayer shackled Satan and snatched many 
souls from his clutches. 

1466 Jesus, lover of human salvation, draw all souls to the divine life. May the greatness of 
Your mercy be praised here on earth and in eternity. O great lover of souls, who in 
Your boundless compassion opened the salutary fountains of mercy so that weak souls 
may be fortified in this life’s pilgrimage, Your mercy runs through our life like a golden 
thread and maintains in good order the contact of our being with God. For He does not 
need anything to make Him happy; so everything is ( 71 ) solely the work of His mercy. 

My senses are transfixed with joy when God grants me a deeper awareness of that 
great attribute of His; namely, His unfathomable mercy. 

1467 January 7, 1938. First Friday of the month. This morning during Mass, for a brief while, 

I saw the suffering Savior. What struck me was that Jesus was so peaceful amidst His 
great sufferings. I understood that this was a lesson for me on what my outward 
behavior should be in the midst of my various sufferings. 

1468 For quite a long while, I felt pain in my hands, feet and side. Then I saw a certain sinner 
who, profiting from my sufferings, drew near to the Lord. All this for starving souls that 
they may not die of starvation. 



322 




1469 + I went to confession to the chaplain [Father Theodore] today. Jesus comforted me 

through this priest. O my Mother, Church of God, you are a true Mother who 
understands her children 

1470 ( 72 ) Oh, how good it is that Jesus will judge us according to our conscience and not 
according to people’s talk and judgments. O inconceivable goodness, I see You full of 
goodness in the very act of judgment. 

1471 Although I am feeling weak, and my nature is clamoring for rest, I feel the inspiration of 
grace telling me to take hold of myself and write, write for the comfort of souls, whom I 
love so much and with whom I will share all eternity. And I desire eternal life for them 
so ardently that that is why I use all my free moments, no matter how short, for writing in 
the way that Jesus wishes of me. 

1472 January 8. During Holy Mass, I had a moment of knowledge concerning Father S., that 
great glory is being given to God through our mutual efforts. And even though we are 
far from each other, we are often together, because we are united by a common goal. 

1473 O my Jesus, my only desire, although I wanted to receive You today with greater fervor 
than ever, ( 73 ) nevertheless, precisely on this day, my soul is drier than ever. My faith 
grows in power, and so the fruit of Your coming, Lord, will be abundant. Although many 
a time You come without touching my senses and reign only in the loftier part of me, the 
senses too sometimes rejoice at Your coming. 

1474 I often ask the Lord Jesus for an intellect enlightened by faith. I express this to the Lord 
in these words: “Jesus, give me an intellect, a great intellect, for this only, that I may 
understand You better; because the better I get to know You, the more ardently will I 
love You. Jesus, I ask You for a powerful intellect, that I may understand divine and 
lofty matters. Jesus, give me a keen intellect with which I will get to know Your Divine 
Essence and Your indwelling, Triune life. Give my intellect these capacities and 
aptitudes by means of your special grace. Although I know that there is a capability 
through grace which the Church gives me, there is still a treasure of graces which You 
give us, O Lord, when we ask You for them. But if my request is not pleasing to You, 
then I beg You, do not give me the inclination to pray thus.” 

1475 (74) I strive for the greatest perfection possible in order to be useful to the Church. 
Greater by far is my bond to the Church. The sanctity or the fall of each individual soul 
has an effect upon the whole Church. Observing myself and those who are close to 
me, I have come to understand how great an influence I have on other souls, not by any 
heroic deeds, as these are striking in themselves, but by small actions like a movement 
of the hand, a look, and many other things too numerous to mention, which have an 
effect on and reflect in the souls of others, as I myself have noticed. 

1476 Oh, how good it is that our rule demands strict silence in the dormitory [common 
bedrooms] and does not allow us to stay in them unless it is absolutely necessary. I 
have at present a little room in which two of us sleep, but at the time of my sickness 
when I had to stay in bed, I found out how bothersome it was if someone was sitting in 
the bedroom all the time. Sister N. 228 had some handwork to do and sat in the bedroom 
almost all of the time, ( 75 ) and another S. 229 would come to instruct her on how to do it. 



323 




It’s difficult to describe how much this tires one, especially when one is ill and has spent 
a night in pain. Every word has a repercussion somewhere in the brain, especially 
when the eyes are heavy with sleep. O rule, how much love there is in you 

1477 When, during Vespers, the Magnificat was being sung and they came to the words, “He 
has shown the strength of His arm,” a profound spirit of recollection enveloped my soul, 
and I understood that the Lord would soon accomplish His work in my soul. 230 I am not 
surprised now that the Lord did not disclose everything to me at first. 

1478 + Why are You sad today, Jesus? Tell me, who is the cause of Your sadness? And 
Jesus answered me. Chosen souls who do not have my spirit, who live according 
to the letter [cf. 2 Cor. 3:6] and have placed the letter above My spirit, above the 
spirit of love. 

I have founded My whole law on love, and yet I do not see love, even in religious 
orders. This is why sadness fills My Heart. 

+ 

(76) J. M. J. 

1479 O my Jesus, in terrible bitterness and pain, 

I yet feel the caress of Your Divine Heart. 

Like a good mother, You press me to Your bosom, 

And even now You give me to experience what the veil hides. 

O my Jesus, in this wilderness and terror which surround me, 

My heart still feels the warmth of Your gaze, 

Which no storm can blot out form me, 

As You give me the assurance of your great love, O God. 

0 my Jesus, midst the great miseries of this life, 

You shine like a star, O Jesus, protecting me from shipwreck. 

And though my miseries be great, 

1 have great trust in the power of Your mercy. 

O hidden Jesus, in the many struggles of my last hour, 

May the omnipotence of Your grace be poured out upon my soul, 

That at death’s moment I may gaze upon You 

And see You face to face, as do the chosen in heaven. 

0 my Jesus, midst the dangers which surround me, 

1 go through life with a cry of joy, my head raised proudly, 

Because against Your Heart so filled with love, O Jesus, 

All enemies will be crushed, all darkness dispelled. 

1480 (77) + Jesus, hide me in Your mercy and shield me against everything that might terrify 
my soul. Do not let my trust in Your mercy be disappointed. Shield me with the 
omnipotence of Your mercy, and judge me leniently as well. 



324 




1481 Today 231 during Holy Mass, I saw the Infant Jesus near my kneeler. He appeared to be 
about one year old, and He asked me to take Him in my arms. When I did take Him in 
my arms, He cuddled up close to my bosom and said, It is good for Me to be close to 
your heart. “Although You are so little, I know that You are God. Why do You take the 
appearance of such a little baby to commune with me?” Because I want to teach you 
spiritual childhood. I want you to be very little, because when you are little, I 
carry you close to My Heart, just as you are holding Me close to your heart right 
now. And with that, I was again alone, but no one can conceive the emotions of my 
soul, I was so fully plunged in God, like a sponge thrown into the sea. 

1482 (78) + O my Jesus, You know that I have gotten myself into a lot of trouble for speaking 
out the truth. O truth, so often oppressed, you nearly always wear a crown of thorns! O 
Eternal Truth, support me that I may have the courage to speak the truth even if it would 
come about that I would pay for it with my life. O Jesus, how hard it is to believe in this, 
when one sees one thing taught and something else lived. 

1483 This is why, during the retreat, after a long observation of life, I resolved to fix my eyes 

firmly on You, Jesus, the most perfect of models. O eternity, which will uncover many 
secrets and make manifest the truth 

1484 O Living Host, support me in this exile, that I may be empowered to walk faithfully in the 
footsteps of the Savior. I do not ask, Lord, that You take me down from the cross, but I 
implore You to give me the strength to remain steadfast upon it. I want to be stretched 
out upon the cross as You were, Jesus. I want all the tortures and pains that You 
suffered. I want to drink the cup of bitterness to the dregs. 

(79) The Goodness of God. 

1485 The mercy of God, hidden in the Blessed Sacrament, the voice of the Lord who speaks 
to us from the throne of mercy: Come to Me, all of you. 

Jesus: Be not afraid of your Savior; O sinful soul. I make the first move to come 
to you, for I know that by yourself you are unable to lift yourself to me. Child, do 
not run away from your Father; be willing to talk openly with your God of mercy 
who wants to speak words of pardon and lavish his graces on you. How dear 
your soul is to Me! I have inscribed your name upon My hand; you are engraved 
as a deep wound in My Heart. 

Soul: Lord, I hear your voice calling me to turn back from the path of sin, but I have 
neither the strength nor the courage to do so. 

Jesus: I am your strength, I will help you in the struggle. 

Soul: Lord, I recognize your holiness, and I fear You. 

Jesus: My child, do you fear the God of mercy? My holiness (80) does not 
prevent Me from being merciful. Behold, for you I have established a throne of 
mercy on earth - the tabernacle - and from this throne I desire to enter into your 
heart. I am not surrounded by a retinue or guards. You can come to me at any 
moment, at any time; I want to speak to you and desire to grant you grace. 



325 




Soul: Lord, I doubt that You will pardon my numerous sins; my misery fills me with 
fright. 

Jesus: My mercy is greater than your sins and those of the entire world. Who can 
measure the extent of my goodness? For you I descended from heaven to earth; 
for you I allowed myself to be nailed to the cross; for you I let my Sacred Heart be 
pierced with a lance, thus opening wide the source of mercy for you. Come, then, 
with trust to draw graces from this fountain. I never reject a contrite heart. Your 
misery has disappeared in the depths of My mercy. Do not argue with Me about 
your wretchedness. You will give me pleasure if you hand over to me all your 
troubles and griefs. I shall heap upon you the treasures of My grace. 

(81) Soul: You have conquered, O Lord, my stony heart with Your goodness. In trust 
and humility I approach the tribunal of Your mercy, where You Yourself absolve me by 
the hand of your representative. O Lord, I feel Your grace and Your peace filling my 
poor soul. I feel overwhelmed by Your mercy, O lord. You forgive me, which is more 
than I dared to hope for or could imagine. Your goodness surpasses all my desires. 

And now, filled with gratitude for so many graces, I invite You to my heart. I wandered, 
like a prodigal child gone astray; but you did not cease to be my Father. Increase Your 
mercy toward me, for You see how weak I am. 

Jesus: Child, speak no more of your misery; it is already forgotten. Listen, My 
child, to what I desire to tell you. Come close to My wounds and draw from the 
Fountain of Life whatever your heart desires. Drink copiously from the Fountain 
of Life and you will not weary on your journey. Look at the splendors of My 
Mercy and do not fear the enemies of your salvation. Glorify My mercy. 

(82) Conversation of the Merciful God 

With a Despairing Soul. 

1486 Jesus: O soul steeped in darkness, do not despair. All is not yet lost. Come and 
confide in your God, who is love and mercy. 

-- But the soul, deaf even to this appeal, wraps itself in darkness. 

Jesus calls out again: My child, listen to the voice of your merciful Father. 

-- In the soul arises this reply: “For me there is no mercy,” and it falls into greater 
darkness, a despair which is a foretaste of hell and makes it unable to draw near God. 

Jesus calls to the soul a third time, but the soul remains deaf and blind, hardened and 
despairing. Then the mercy of God begins to exert itself, and, without any co-operation 
from the soul, God grants it final grace. If this too is spurned, God will leave the soul in 
this self-chosen disposition for eternity. This grace emerges from the merciful Heart of 
Jesus and gives the soul a special light by means of which the soul begins to 
understand (83) God’s effort; but conversion depends on its own will. The soul knows 
that this, for her, is final grace and, should it show even a flicker of good will, the mercy 
of God will accomplish the rest. 



326 




My omnipotent mercy is active here. Happy the soul that takes advantage of this 
grace. 

Jesus: What joy fills My Heart when you return to me. Because you are weak, I 
take you in My arms and carry you to the home of My Father. 

Soul (as if awaking, asks fearfully): Is it possible that there yet is mercy for me? 

Jesus: There is, My child. You have a special claim on My mercy. Let it act in 
your poor soul; let the rays of grace enter your soul; they bring with them light, 
warmth, and life. 

Soul: But fear fills me at the thought of my sins, and this terrible fear moves me to 
doubt Your goodness. 

Jesus: My child, all your sins have not wounded My Heart as painfully as your 
present lack of trust does - that after so many efforts of My (84) love and mercy, 
you should still doubt My goodness. 

Soul: O Lord, save me Yourself, for I perish. Be my Savior. O Lord, I am unable to say 
anything more; my pitiful heart is torn asunder; but You, O Lord 

Jesus does not let the soul finish but, raising it from the ground, from the depths of its 
misery, he leads it into the recesses of His Heart where all its sins disappear instantly, 
consumed by the flames of love. 

Jesus: Here, soul, are all the treasures of My Heart. Take everything you need 
from it. 

Soul: O Lord, I am inundated with Your grace. I sense that a new life has entered into 
me and, above all, I feel Your love in my heart. That is enough for me. O Lord, I will 
glorify the omnipotence of Your mercy for all eternity. Encouraged by Your goodness, I 
will confide to You all the sorrows of my heart. 

Jesus: Tell me all, My child, hide nothing from Me, because My loving Heart, the 
Heart of your Best Friend, is listening to you. 

Soul: O Lord, now I see all my ingratitude and Your goodness. You were pursuing me 
with Your grace, while I was frustrating Your benevolence. I see that I deserve (85) the 
depths of hell for spurning Your graces. Jesus (interrupting): Do not be absorbed in 
your misery - you are still too weak to speak of it - but, rather; gaze on My Heart 
filled with goodness, and be imbued with My sentiments. Strive for meekness 
and humility; be merciful to others, as I am to you; and, when you feel your 
strength failing, if you come to the fountain of mercy to fortify your soul, you will 
not grow weary on your journey. 

Soul: Now I understand Your mercy, which protects me, and like a brilliant star, leads 
me into the home of my Father, protecting me from the horrors of hell that I have 
deserved, not once, but a thousand times. O Lord, eternity will hardly suffice for me to 
give due praise to Your unfathomable mercy and Your compassion for me. 



327 




+ Conversation of the Merciful God 
with a Suffering Soul 

1487 Jesus: Poor soul, I see that you suffer much and that you do not have even the 
strength to converse with me. So I will speak to you. Even though your 
sufferings were (86) very great, do not lose heart or give in to despondency. But 
tell Me, my child, who has dared to wound your heart? Tell me about everything, 
be sincere in dealing with Me, reveal all the wounds of your heart. I will heal 
them, and your suffering will become a source of your sanctification. 

Soul: Lord, my sufferings are so great and numerous and have lasted so long that I 
become discouraged. 

Jesus: My child, do not be discouraged. I know your boundless trust in Me; I 
know you are aware of My goodness and mercy. Let us talk in detail about 
everything that weighs so heavily upon your heart. 

Soul: There are so many different things that I do not know what to speak about first, 
nor how to express it. 

Jesus: Talk to Me simply, as a friend to a friend. Tell Me now, My child, what 
hinders you from advancing in holiness? 

Soul: Poor health detains me on the way to holiness. I cannot fulfill my duties. I am as 
useless as an extra wheel on a wagon. I cannot mortify myself or fast to any extent, as 
the saints did. (87) Furthermore, nobody believes I am sick, so that mental pain is 
added to those of the body, and I am often humiliated. Jesus, how can anyone become 
holy in such circumstances? 

Jesus: True, my child, all that is painful. But there is no way to heaven except the 
way of the cross. I followed it first. You must learn that it is the shortest and 
surest way. 

Soul: Lord, there is another obstacle on the road to holiness. Because I am faithful to 
You, I am persecuted and suffer much. 

Jesus: It is because you are not of this world that the world hates you. First it 
persecuted Me. Persecution is a sign that you are following in My footsteps 
faithfully. 

Soul: My Lord, I am also discouraged because neither my superiors nor my confessor 
understand my interior trials. A darkness clouds my mind. How can I advance? All this 
discourages me from striving for the heights of sanctity. 

Jesus: Well, My child, this time you have told Me a good deal. I realize how 
painful it is not to be (88) understood, and especially by those whom one loves 
and with whom one has been very open. But suffice it to know that I understand 
all your troubles and misery. I am pleased by the deep faith you have, despite 
everything, in My representatives. Learn from this that no one will understand a 
soul entirely - that is beyond human ability. Therefore, I have remained on earth 



328 




1488 



to comfort your aching heart and to fortify your soul, so that you will not falter on 
the way. You say that a dense darkness is obscuring your mind. But why, at 
such times, do you not come to Me, the light who can in an instant pour into your 
soul more understanding about holiness than can be found in any books? No 
confessor is capable of teaching and enlightening a soul in this way. 

Know, too, that the darkness about which you complain I first endured in the 
Garden of Olives when My Soul was crushed in mortal anguish. I am giving you a 
share in those sufferings because of My special love for you and in view of the 
high degree of holiness I am (89) intending for you in heaven. A suffering soul is 
closest to My Heart. 

Soul: One more thing, Lord. What should I do when I am ignored and rejected by 
people, especially by those on whom I had a right to count in times of greatest need? 

Jesus: My child, make the resolution never to rely on people. Entrust yourself 
completely to My will saying, “Not as I want, but according to Your will, O God, let 
it be done unto me.” These words, spoken from the depths of one’s heart, can 
raise a soul to the summit of sanctity in a short time. In such a soul I delight. 
Such a soul gives Me glory. Such a soul fills heaven with the fragrance of her 
virtue. But understand that the strength by which you bear sufferings comes 
from frequent Communions. So approach this fountain of mercy often, to draw 
with the vessel of trust whatever you need. 

Soul: Thank You, Lord, for Your goodness in remaining with us in this exile as the God 
of mercy (90) and blessing us with the radiance of Your compassion and goodness. It 
is through the light of Your mercy that I have come to understand how much You love 
me. 



Conversation of the Merciful God 
with a Soul Striving after Perfection. 

Jesus: I am pleased with your efforts, O soul aspiring for perfection, but why do I 
see you so often sad and depressed? Tell Me, My child, what is the meaning of 
this sadness, and what is its cause? 

Soul: Lord, the reason for my sadness is that, in spite of my sincere resolutions, I fall 
again into the same faults. I make resolutions in the morning, but in the evenings I see 
how much I have departed from them. 

Jesus: You see, My child, what you are of yourself. The cause of your falls is that 
you rely too much upon yourself and too little on Me. But let this not sadden you 
so much. You are dealing with the God of mercy, which your misery cannot 
exhaust. Remember, I did not allot only a certain number of pardons. 

Soul: Yes, I know all that, (91) but great temptations assail me, and various doubts 
awaken within me and, moreover, everything irritates and discourages me. 

Jesus: My child, know that the greatest obstacles to holiness are discouragement 
and an exaggerated anxiety. These will deprive you of the ability to practice 
virtue. All temptations united together ought not disturb your interior peace, not 



329 




1489 



even momentarily. Sensitiveness and discouragement are the fruits of self-love. 
You should not become discouraged, but strive to make My love reign in place of 
your self-love. Have confidence, My child. Do not lose heart in coming for 
pardon, for I am always ready to forgive you. As often as you beg for it, you 
glorify My mercy. 

Soul: I understand what is the better thing to do, what pleases You more, but I 
encounter great obstacles in acting on this understanding. 

Jesus: Mi child, life on earth is a struggle indeed; a great struggle for My 
kingdom. But fear not, because you are not alone. I am always supporting you, 
(92) so lean on Me as you struggle, fearing nothing. Take the vessel of trust and 
draw from the fountain of life - for yourself, but also for other souls, especially 
such as are distrustful of My goodness. 

Soul: O Lord, I feel my heart being filled with Your love and the rays of Your mercy and 
love piercing my soul. I go, Lord, at Your command. I go to conquer souls. Sustained 
by Your grace, I am ready to follow You, Lord, not only to Tabor, but also to Calvary. I 
desire to lead souls to the fount of Your mercy so that the splendor of Your mercy may 
be reflected in all souls, and the home of our Father be filled to overflowing. And when 
the enemy begins to attach me, I shall take refuge behind the shield of Your mercy. 

Conversation of the Merciful God 
with a Perfect Soul. 

Soul: My Lord and Master, I desire to converse with You. 

Jesus: Speak, My beloved (93) child, for I am always listening. I wait for you. 

What do you desire to say? 

Soul: Lord, first let me pour out my heart at Your feet in a fragrant anointing of gratitude 
for the many blessings which You lavish upon me; even if I wanted to, I could not count 
them. I only recall that there has never been a moment in my life in which I have not 
experienced Your protection and goodness. 

Jesus: Your words please Me, and your thanksgiving opens up new treasures of 
graces. But, My child, we should talk in more detail about the things that lie in 
your heart. Let us talk confidentially and frankly, as two hearts that love one 
another do. 

Soul: O my merciful Lord, there are secrets in my heart which no one knows or will ever 
know except You because, even if I wanted to reveal them, no one would understand 
me. Your minister knows some because I confess to him, but he knows only the bit of 
these mysteries that I am capable of revealing; the rest remains between us for eternity, 
O My Lord! (94) You have covered me with the cloak of Your mercy, pardoning my 
sins. Not once did You refuse Your pardon; You always had pity on me, giving me a 
new life of grace. To prevent doubts, You have entrusted me to the loving care of Your 
Church, that tender mother, who in Your Name assures me of the truths of faith and 
watches lest I wander. Especially in the tribunal of Your mercy does my soul meet an 
ocean of favors, though You did not give the Fallen Angels time to repent or prolong 



330 




their time of mercy. O my Lord, you have provided saintly priests to show me the sure 
way. 

Jesus, there is one more secret in my life, the deepest and dearest to my heart: it is 
You Yourself when You come to my heart under the appearance of bread. Herein lies 
the whole secret of my sanctity. Here my heart is so united with Yours as to be but one. 
There are no more secrets, because all that is Yours is mine, and all that is mine is 
Yours. Such is the omnipotence and the (95) miracle of Your mercy. All the tongues of 
men and of angels united could not find words adequate to this mystery of Your love 
and mercy. 

When I contemplate this mystery, my heart falls into a new ecstasy. In silence I tell You 
everything, Lord, because the language of love is without words; not a single stirring of 
my heart escapes You. O Lord, the extent of Your great condescension has awakened 
in my soul an even greater love for You, the sole object of my love. The life of union 
manifests itself in perfect purity, deep humility, gentle silence, and great zeal for the 
salvation of souls. 

O my sweetest Lord, You watch over me each moment and inspire me as to how I 
should act in a precise situation, when my heart wavers between two things. You 
Yourself frequently intervened in the resolution of a difficulty. Countless times, by 
means of a sudden (96) enlightenment, You have given me to know what is the more 
pleasing to you. 

Oh, how numerous are the instances of forgiveness about which no one knows! How 
often You have poured into my soul courage and perseverance to go forward. It is You 
Youseif who removed obstacles from my road, intervening directly in the actions of 
people. O Jesus, everything I have said to You is but a pale shadow of what is taking 
place in my hart. O my Jesus, how ardently I desire the conversion of sinners! You 
know what I am doing for them to win them for You. Every offense against You wounds 
me deeply. I spare neither strength, nor health, nor life itself in defense of Your 
kingdom. Although my efforts may remain invisible on earth, they are no less valuable 
in Your eyes. 

O Jesus, I want to bring souls to the fount of Your mercy to draw the reviving water of 
life with the vessel of trust. The soul desirous of more of God’s mercy should approach 
God with greater trust; and if the trust in God is unlimited, then the mercy of God toward 
it will be likewise limitless. O my God, (97) You know every beat of my heart. You 
know how eagerly I desire that all hearts would beat for You alone, that every soul 
glorify the greatness of Your mercy. 

Jesus: My beloved child, delight of My Heart, your words are dearer and more 
pleasing to me than the angelic chorus. All the treasures of My Heart are open to 
you. Take from this Heart all that you need for yourself and for the whole world. 
For the sake of your love, I withhold the just chastisements, which mankind has 
deserved. A single act of pure love pleases Me more than a thousand imperfect 
prayers. One of your sighs of love atones for many offenses with which the 
godless overwhelm Me. The smallest act of virtue has unlimited value in My eyes 
because of your great love for Me. In a soul that lives on My love alone, I reign as 
in heaven. I watch over it day and night. In it I find My happiness; My ear is 



331 




attentive to (98) each request of its heart; often I anticipate its requests. O child, 
especially beloved by Me, apple of My eye, rest a moment near My Heart and taste 
of the love in which you will delight for all eternity. 

But child, you are not yet in your homeland; so go, fortified by My grace, and fight 
for My kingdom in human souls; fight as a king’s child would; and remember that 
the days of your exile will pass quickly, and with them the possibility of earning 
merit for heaven. I expect from you, My child, a great number of souls who will 
glorify My mercy for all eternity. My child, that you may answer My call worthily, 
receive Me daily in Holy Communion. It will give you strength 

(99) Jesus, do not leave me alone in suffering. You know, Lord, how weak I am. I am 
an abyss of wretchedness, I am nothingness itself; so what will be so strange if You 
leave me alone and I fall? I am an infant, Lord, so I cannot get along my myself. 
However, beyond all abandonment I trust, and in spite of my own feeling I trust, and I 
am being completely transformed into trust - often in spite of what I feel. Do not lessen 
any of my sufferings, only give me strength to bear them. Do with me as You please, 
Lord, only give me the grace to be able to love You in every event and circumstance, 
Lord, do not lessen my cup of bitterness, only give me strength that I may be able to 
drink it all. 

O lord, sometimes You lift me up to the brightness of visions, and then again You 
plunge me into the darkness of night and the abyss of my nothingness, and my soul 
feels as if it were alone in the wilderness. Yet, above all things, I trust in You, Jesus, for 
You are unchangeable. My moods change, but You are always the same, full of mercy. 

1490 (100) + Jesus, source of life, sanctify me. O my strength, fortify me. My Commander, 

fight for me. Only light of my soul, enlighten me. My Master, guide me. I entrust myself 
to You as a little child does to its mother’s love. Even if all things were to conspire 
against me, and even if the ground were to give way under my feet, I would be at peace 
close to Your Heart. You are always a most tender mother to me, and You surpass all 
mothers. I will sing of my pain to You by my silence, and You will understand me 
beyond any utterance 

1491 + The Lord visited me today and said, My daughter, do not be afraid of what will 
happen to you. I will give you nothing beyond your strength. You know the 
power of My grace; let that be enough. After these words, the Lord gave me a 
deeper understanding of the action of His grace. 

1492 Before Holy Communion, Jesus gave me to understand that I should pay absolutely no 
attention ( 101 ) to what a certain sister would say, because her cunning and malice were 
displeasing to Him. My daughter, do not speak to this person about either your 
views or your opinions. I begged the Lord’s pardon for what in that soul was 
displeasing to Him, and I begged Him to strengthen me with His grace when she would 
come to talk with me again. She has asked me about many things, to which I gave 
answer with all my sisterly love and, as evidence that I have spoken to her from the 
bottom of my heart, I have told her some things that came from my own experience. 

But her intentions were something quite different from the words on her lips 



332 




1493 



+ O my Jesus, from the moment I gave myself completely to You, I have given no 
thought whatsoever for myself. You may do with me whatever You like. There is only 
one thing I think about; that is, what do You prefer; what can I do, O Lord, to please 
You. I listen and watch for each opportunity. It matters not if I am outwardly judged 
otherwise in this matter 

1494 ( 102 ) January 15, 1938. Today, when the sister about whom the Lord warned me came 
to see me, I armed myself spiritually for battle. Although it cost me much, I did not 
depart one bit from what the Lord had commanded. But when an hour had gone by, 
and the sister made no move to go, I interiorly called upon Jesus to help. Then I heard 
a voice in my soul saying, Do not fear. I am watching you this very moment and am 
helping you. In a moment, I will send you two sisters who are coming to visit you, 
and then you will find it easy to continue the conversation. And at that moment two 
sisters entered, and then the conversation was much easier, even though it lasted for 
still another half hour. 

1495 Oh, how good it is to call on Jesus for help during a conversation. Oh, how good it is, 
during a moment of peace, to beg for actual graces. I fear most of all this sort of 
confidential conversation; there is need of much divine light at times like this, in order to 
speak with profit, both for the other person’s soul, and for one’s own as well. God, 
however, comes to our aid; but we have to ask Him for it. Let no one trust too much in 
his own self. 

1496 ( 103 ) January 17, 1938. Today, since early in the morning, my soul has been in 
darkness. I cannot ascend to Jesus, and I feel as though I have been forsaken by Him. 

I will not turn to creatures for light, because I know that they will not enlighten me if 
Jesus wills to keep me in darkness. I submit myself to His holy will and suffer. Still, the 
struggle is becoming more and more desperate. During Vespers, I wanted to unite 
myself with the sisters through prayer. 

1497 When I went, in my thoughts, to the chapel, my spirit was plunged into even greater 
darkness. Total discouragement came over me. Than I heard Satan’s voice: “See how 
contradictory everything is that Jesus gives to you: He tells you to found a convent, and 
then He gives you sickness; He tells you to set about establishing this Feast of Mercy 
while the whole world does not at all want such a feast. Why do you pray for this feast? 
It is so inopportune.” My soul remained silent and, by an act of will, continued to pray 
without entering into conversation with the Spirit of Darkness. Nevertheless, such an 
extraordinary disgust with life came over me that I had to make a great act of the will to 
consent to go on living. ...( 104 ) 

And again I heard the tempter’s words: “Ask for death for yourself, tomorrow after Holy 
Communion. God will hear you, for He has heard you so many times before and has 
given you that which you asked of Him.” I remained silent and, by an act of will, I began 
to pray, or rather, submitted myself to God, asking Him interiorly not to abandon me at 
this moment. It was already eleven o’clock at night, and there was silence all around. 
The sisters were all asleep in their cells, and my soul alone was struggling with great 
exertion. 

The tempter went on: “Why should you bother about other souls? You ought to be 
praying only for yourself. As for sinners, they will be converted without your prayers. I 



333 




see that you are suffering very much at this moment. I’m going to give you a piece of 
advice on which your happiness will depend: Never speak about God’s mercy and, in 
particular, do not encourage sinners to trust in God’s mercy, because they deserve a 
just punishment. Another very important thing: Do not tell your confessors, and 
especially this extraordinary confessor and the priest in Vilnius, about what goes on in 
your soul. I know them; I know who they are, and so I want to put you on your guard 
(105) against them. You see, to live as good nun, it is sufficient to live like all the 
others. Why expose yourself to so many difficulties?” 

1498 I remained silent, and by an act of will I dwelt in God, although a moan escaped from 
my heart. Finally, the tempter went away and I, exhausted, fell asleep immediately. In 
the morning, right after receiving Holy Communion, I went immediately to my cell and 
falling on my knees I renewed my act of submission in all things to the will of God. 
“Jesus, I ask You, give me the strength for battle. Let it be done to me according to 
Your most holy will. My soul is enamored of Your most holy will.” 

1499 At that moment, I saw Jesus, who said, I am pleased with what you are doing. And 
you can continue to be at peace if you always do the best you can in respect to 
this work of mercy. Be absolutely as frank as possible with your confessor. 

Satan gained nothing by tempting you, because you did not enter into 
conversation with him. Continue to act in this way. You gave Me great glory 
today by fighting so faithfully. (106) Let it be confirmed and engraved on your 
heart that I am always with you, even if you don’t feel My presence at the time of 
battle. 

1500 Today, the love of god is transporting me into the other world. I am all immersed in 
love; I love and feel that I am loved, and with full consciousness I experience this. My 
soul is drowning in the Lord, realizing the great Majesty of God and its own littleness; 
but through this knowledge my happiness increases.... This awareness is so vivid in the 
soul, so powerful and, at the same time, so sweet. 

1501 + Now that I have difficulty sleeping at night, because my suffering won’t allow it, I visit 
all the churches and chapels and, if only for a brief moment, I make an act of adoration 
before the Blessed Sacrament. When I return to my chapel, I then pray for certain 
priests who proclaim and glory The Divine Mercy. I also pray for the intentions of the 
Holy Father and to obtain mercy for sinners - such are my nights. 

1502 (107) January 20, 1938. I never cringe before anyone. I can’t bear flattery, for humility 
is nothing but the truth. There is no cringing in true humility. Although I consider myself 
the least in the whole convent, on the other hand, I enjoy the honor of being the bride of 
Christ. Little matter that often I hear people say that I am proud, for I know that human 
judgment does not discern motives for our actions. 

1503 When, at the beginning of my religious life, following the novitiate, I began to exercise 
myself particularly in humility, the humiliations that God sent me were not enough for 
me. And so, in my excessive zeal, I looked for more of them on my own, and I often 
represented myself to my superiors other than I was in reality and spoke of miseries of 
which I had no notion. But a short time later, Jesus gave me to know that humility is 



334 




only the truth. From that time on, I changed my ideas, faithfully following the light of 
Jesus. I learned that if a soul is with Jesus, He will not permit it to err. 

1 504 ( 1 08 ) + Lord, You know that since my youth I have always sought Your will and, 

recognizing it, have always tried to carry it out. My heart has been accustomed to the 
inspirations of the Holy Spirit, to whom I am faithful. In the midst of the greatest din I 
have heard the voice of God. I always know what is going on in my interior 

1505 I am striving for sanctity, because in this way I shall be useful to the Church. I make 

constant efforts in practicing virtue. I try faithfully to follow Jesus. And I deposit this 
whole series of daily virtues - silent, hidden, almost imperceptible, but made with great 
love - in the treasury of God’s Church for the common benefit of souls. I feel interiorly 
as if I were responsible for all souls. I know very well that I do not live for myself alone, 
but for the entire Church 

1506 + O incomprehensible God, my heart dissolves in joy that You have allowed me to 
penetrate the mysteries of Your mercy! ( 109 ) Everything begins with Your mercy and 
ends with Your mercy. 

1507 All grace flows from mercy, and the last hour abounds with mercy for us. Let no one 
doubt concerning the goodness of God; even if a person’s sins were as dark as night, 
God’s mercy is stronger than our misery. One thing alone is necessary: that the sinner 
set ajar the door of his heart, be it ever so little, to let in a ray of God’s merciful grace, 
and then God will do the rest. But poor is the soul who has shut the door on God’s 
mercy, even at the last hour. It was just such souls who plunged Jesus into deadly 
sorrow in the Garden of Olives; indeed, it was from His Most Merciful Heart that divine 
mercy flowed out. 

1 508 January 21 , [1 938]. Jesus, how truly dreadful it would be to suffer if it were not for You. 

But it is You, Jesus, stretched out on the cross, who give me strength and are always 
close to the suffering soul. Creatures will abandon a person in his suffering, but You, O 
Lord, are faithful 

1509 (110) It often happens when one is ill, as in the case of Job in the Old testament, that 
as long as one can move about and work, everything is fine and dandy; but when God 
sends illness, somehow or other, there are fewer friends about. But yet, there are 
some. They still take interest in our suffering and all that, but if God sends a longer 
illness, even those faithful friends slowly begin to desert us. They visit us less 
frequently, and often their visits cause suffering. Instead of comforting us, they 
reproach us about certain things, which is an occasion of a good deal of suffering. And 
so the soul, like Job, is alone; but fortunately, it is not alone, because Jesus-Host is with 
it. After having tasted the above sufferings and spent a whole night in bitterness, the 
next morning, when the chaplain [Father Theodore] brought me Holy Communion, I had 
to control myself by sheer effort of will to keep from crying out at the top of my voice, 
“Welcome, my true and only Friend.” Holy Communion gives me strength to suffer and 
fight. 

I wish to speak of one more thing that I have experienced: when God gives (111) 
neither death nor health, and [when] this lasts for many years, people become 



335 




accustomed to this and consider the person as not being ill. Then there begins a whole 
series of silent sufferings. Only God knows how many sacrifices the soul makes. 

151 0 One evening, when I was feeling so bad that I wondered how I would get back to my 

cell, I came across the Sister Assistant [Sister Seraphina], who was asking one of the 
sisters of the first choir to go to the gate with a certain message. But when she saw me, 
she said to her, “No, Sister, you need not go, but Sister Faustina will, because it is 
raining heavily.” In answered, “All right,” and went and carried out the order, but only 
God knows the whole of it. This is just one example among many. Sometimes it would 
seem that a sister of the second choir 232 is made of stone, but she also is human and 
has a heart and feelings 

1511 At such times, God Himself comes to our rescue, for otherwise the soul would not be 

able to bear these crosses of which I haven’t even begun to write, nor do I intend to do 
so now. But when I feel the inspiration to do so, I will write about them 

1512 (112) Today, during Mass, I saw the Lord Jesus in the midst of His sufferings, as though 
dying on the cross. He said to me, My daughter, meditate frequently on the 
sufferings which I have undergone for your sake, and then nothing of what you 
suffer for Me will seem great to you. You please Me most when you meditate on 
My Sorrowful Passion. Join your little sufferings to My Sorrowful Passion, so 
that they may have infinite value before My Majesty. 

1513 + Jesus said to me today, You often call Me your Master. This is pleasing to My 
Heart; but do not forget, My disciple, that you are a disciple of a crucified Master. 
Let that one word be enough for you. You know what is contained in the cross. 

1514 +1 have learned that the greatest power is hidden in patience. I see that patience always 

leads to victory, although not immediately; but that victory will become manifest after 
many years. Patience is linked to meekness. 

1515 (113) + I spent this whole night with Jesus in the dark dungeon. This was a night of 
adoration. The sisters were praying in the chapel, and I was uniting myself with them in 
spirit, because poor health prevents me from going to the chapel. But all night long I 
could not fall asleep, so I spent the night in the dark prison with Jesus. Jesus gave me to 
know of the sufferings He experienced there. The world will learn about them on the day 
of judgment. 

1516 My daughter, tell souls that I am giving them My mercy as a defense. I Myself am 
fighting for them and am bearing the just anger of My Father. 

1517 Say, My daughter, that the Feast of My Mercy has issued forth from My very depths 
for the consolation of the whole world. 

1518 Jesus, my peace and my rest, I beg You to give light to that sister, so that she may 
change interiorly. Support her powerfully with Your grace, so that she, too, may attain 
perfection. 

1519 (114) + Today before Holy Communion, the Lord said to me, My daughter, today talk 
openly to the Superior [Mother Irene] about My mercy because, of all the superiors, 



336 




she has taken the greatest part in proclaiming My mercy. And in fact, Mother 
Superior came this afternoon, and we talked about this Work of God. Mother told me that 
the images had not come out too well and were not selling very well. “But,” she said, “I 
have taken a good quantity myself and am distributing them whenever I can and do the 
best I can to spread the Work of Mercy.” When she had gone, the Lord gave me to know 
how pleasing this soul was to Him. 

1520 Today the Lord said to me, I have opened My Heart as a living fountain of mercy. Let 
all souls draw life from it. Let them approach this sea of mercy with great trust. 
Sinners will attain justification, and the just will be confirmed in good. Whoever 
places his trust (115) in My mercy will be filled with My divine peace at the hour of 
death. 

1521 The Lord said to me, My daughter, do not tire of proclaiming My mercy. In this way 
you will refresh this Heart of Mine, which burns with a flame of pity for sinners. Tell 
My priests that hardened sinners will repent on hearing their words when they 
speak about My unfathomable mercy, about the compassion I have for them in My 
Heart. To priests who proclaim and extol My mercy, I will give wondrous power; I 
will anoint their words and touch the hearts of those to whom they will speak. 

1522 Community life is difficult in itself, but it is doubly difficult to get along with proud souls. O 
god, give me a deeper faith that I may always see in every sister Your Holy Image which 
has been engraved in her soul.... 

1523 (116) Everlasting love, pure flame, burn in my heart ceaselessly and deify my whole 

being, according to Your infinite pleasure by which You summoned me into existence and 
called me to take part in Your everlasting happiness. O merciful Lord, it is only out of 
mercy that You have lavished these gifts upon me. Seeing all these free gifts within me, 
with deep humility I worship Your incomprehensible goodness. Lord, my heart is filled 
with amazement that You, absolute Lord, in need of no one, would nevertheless stoop so 
low out of pure love for us. I can never help being amazed that the Lord would have such 
an intimate relationship with his creatures. That again is His unfathomable goodness. 
Every time I begin this meditation, I never finish it, because my spirit becomes entirely 
drowned in Him. What a delight it is to love with all the force of one’s soul and to be loved 
even more in return, to feel and (1 1 7) experience this with the full consciousness of one’s 
being. There are no words to express this. 

1524 January 25, 1938. My Jesus, how good and patient You are! You often look upon us as 
little children. We often beg You, but we don’t know what for, because towards the end of 
the prayer, when You give us what we have asked for, we do not want to accept it. 

1525 One day, a certain sister came to me and asked me for prayers, telling me that she could 
no longer stand things as they were. “And so, please pray, Sister.” In answered that I 
would, and I began a novena to The Divine Mercy. I learned that God would give her the 
grace, but that she would once again be dissatisfied when she received it. However, I 
kept on praying as she had asked me to do. The next day, the same sister came looking 
for me, and when we again began to talk about the same thing, I told her, “You know, 
Sister, when we pray, we ought not force the Lord God to give us what we want, but we 
should rather submit to His holy will.” (118) But she thought that what she was asking for 
was indispensable. Toward the end of the novena, the sister came again and said, “O 



337 




Sister, the Lord Jesus has given me the grace, but now I am of a different mind. Please 
pray so that things will somehow be different again.” I answered, “Yes, I will pray, but that 
God’s will be done in you, Sister, and not what you want.” 

1526 Most Merciful Heart of Jesus, protect us from the just anger of God. 

1527 + A certain sister is constantly persecuting me for the sole reason that God communes 
with me so intimately, and she thinks that this is all pretense on my part. When she thinks 
that I have done something amiss she says, “Some people have revelations, but commit 
such faults!” She has said this to all the sisters and always in a derogatory sense, in 
order to make me out as some sort of an oddity. One day, it caused me much pain to 
think that this insignificant drop which is the human brain can so easily scrutinize (1 1 9) 
the gifts of God. After Holy Communion, I prayed that the Lord would enlighten her, but 
nevertheless I learned that this soul will not attain perfection if she does not change her 
interior dispositions. 

1528 + When I complained to the Lord Jesus about a certain person [saying], “Jesus, how can 
this person pass judgment like that, even about an intention?” the Lord answered, Do not 

be surprised. That soul does not even know her own self, so how could she pass a 
fair judgment on another soul? 

1529 Today I saw Father Andrasz at prayer. I also knew that he was interceding with the 
Lord for me. The Lord sometimes makes known to me who is praying for me. 

1530 I am keeping myself a bit in the background, as though this work of God did not interest 
me. I am not speaking about it at present, but my whole soul is steeped in prayer, and I 
am entreating God to be so good as to hasten this great gift; that is to say, the Feast of 
Mercy. And I see that Jesus is acting, and is Himself giving the directives as to how this 
is to be carried out. Nothing happens by accident. 

1531 (120) Today I said to the Lord Jesus, “Do You see how many difficulties there are [to 
be overcome] before they will believe that You Yourself are the author of this work? 

And even now, not everyone believes in it.” Be at peace, My child; nothing can 
oppose My will. In spite of the murmuring and hostility of the sisters, My will 
shall be done in you in all its fullness, down to the last detail of My wishes and My 
designs. Do not become sad about this; I too was a stumbling stone for some 
souls. 

1532 + Jesus complained to me of how painful to Him is the unfaithfulness of chosen souls, 

and My heart is even more wounded by their distrust after a fall. It would be less 
painful if they had not experienced the goodness of My heart. 

1533 I saw the anger of God hanging heavy over Poland. And now I see that if god were to 
visit our country with the greatest chastisements, that would still be great mercy 
because, for such grave transgressions, He could punish (121) us with eternal 
annihilation. I was paralyzed with fear when the Lord lifted the veil a little for me. Now I 
see clearly that chosen souls keep the world in existence to fulfill the measure [of 
justice]. 



338 




1534 + I saw a certain priest’s efforts in prayer. His prayer is similar to that of the Lord Jesus 
in the Garden of Olives. Oh, if that priest [probably [Father Sopocko] only knew how 
pleasing to God that prayer was! 

1535 O Jesus, I am locking myself in Your most merciful Heart as in a fortress, impregnable 
against the missiles of my enemies. 

1536 Today I found myself in the presence of a certain dying person who was approaching 

death in my home neighborhood. I supported her with my prayers and, after a few 
moments, I felt for a short while pain in my hands, feet and side 

1537 (122) January 27, 1938. During Holy Hour today, Jesus complained to me about the 
ingratitude of souls: 

In return for My blessings, I get ingratitude. In return for My love, I get 
forgetfulness and indifference. My Heart cannot bear this. 

1538 At that moment, love for Jesus was enkindled so strongly in my heart that, offering 
myself for ungrateful souls, I immersed myself completely in Him. When I came to my 
senses, the Lord allowed me to taste a little of the ingratitude which flooded His Heart. 
This experience lasted for a short while. 

1539 Today I said to the Lord, “When will You take me to Yourself I’ve been feeling so ill, and 
I’ve been waiting for Your coming with such longing!” Jesus answered me, Be always 
ready; I will not leave you in this exile for long. My holy will must be fulfilled In 
you. O Lord, if Your holy will has not yet been entirely fulfilled in me, here I am, ready 
for everything that you want, O Lord! (123) O my Jesus, there is only one thing which 
surprises me; namely, that You make so many secrets known to me; but that one secret 
- the hour of my death - You do not want to tell me. And the Lord answered me, Be at 
peace; I will let you know, but not just now. Ah, my Lord, I beg Your pardon for 
wanting to know this. You know very well why, because You know my yearning heart, 
which is eagerly going out to You. You know that I should not want to die even a minute 
before the time which You have appointed for me before the ages. 

Jesus listened with wondrous kindness to the outpourings of my heart. 

1540 (124) January 28, 1938. Today the Lord said to me, My daughter, write down these 

words: All those souls who will glorify My mercy and spread its worship, 
encouraging others to trust in My mercy, will not experience terror at the hour of 
death. My mercy will shield them in that final battle 

1541 My daughter, encourage souls to say the chaplet which I have given to you. It 
pleases Me to grant everything they ask of Me by saying the chaplet. When 
hardened sinners say it, I will fill their souls with peace, and the hour of their 
death will be a happy one. 

Write this for the benefit of distressed souls; when a soul sees and realized the 
gravity of its sins, when the whole abyss of the misery into which it immersed 
itself is displayed before its eyes, let it not despair, but with trust let it throw itself 
into the arms of My mercy, as a child into the arms of its beloved mother. These 



339 




souls (125) have a right of priority to My compassionate Heart, they have first 
access to My mercy. Tell them that no soul that has called upon My mercy has 
been disappointed or brought to shame. I delight particularly in a soul which has 
placed its trust in My goodness. 

Write that when they say this chaplet in the presence of the dying, I will stand 
between My Father and the dying person, not as the just Judge but as the 
merciful Savior. 

1542At that moment, the Lord gave me to know how jealous He is of my heart. 

Even among the sisters you will feel lonely. Know then that I want you to unite 
yourself more closely to Me. I am concerned about every beat of your heart. 

Every stirring of your love is reflected in My Heart. I thirst for your love. “Yes, O 
Jesus, but my heart would not be able to live without You, either; for even if the hearts 
of all creatures were offered to me, they would not satisfy the depths of my heart.” 

1543 (126) Today toward evening, the Lord said to me, Entrust yourself completely to Me 
at the hour of death, and I will present you to My Father as My bride. And now I 
recommend that you unite, in a special way, even your smallest deeds to My 
merits, and then My Father will look upon them with love as if they were My own. 

1544 Do not change your particular examen which I have given you through Father 
Andrasz; namely, that you united yourself with Me continually. That is what I am 
clearly asking of you today. Be a child toward My representatives, because I 
borrow their lips to speak to you, so that you will have no doubts about anything. 

1545 My health has improved somewhat. I went down to the refectory and the chapel today. 

I still cannot resume my duties, and so I stay in my cell at the hand-loom [making 
borders for altar linens]. I enjoy this work every much, but still, even with such light 
work, I tire easily. (127) I see how feeble I am. There are no indifferent moments in my 
life, since every moment of my life is filled with prayer, suffering and work. If not in one 
way, then in another, I glorify God; and if God were to give me a second life, I do not 
know whether I would make better use of it 

1546 The Lord said to me, I am delighted with your love. Your sincere love is as 

pleasing to My Heart as the fragrance of a rosebud at morningtide, before the sun 
has taken the dew from it. The freshness of your heart captivates Me; that is why 
I united Myself with you more closely than with any other creature 

1547 Today I saw the efforts of this priest [Father Sopocko] concerning the affairs of God. 

His heart is beginning to taste that which filled God’s Heart during His earthly life. In 

recompense for his efforts - ingratitude But he is very zealous for the glory of 

God.... 

1548 (128) January 30, 1938. One-day retreat. 

The Lord gave me to know, during meditation, that as long as my heart beats in my 
breast, I must always strive to spread the Kingdom of God on earth, I am to fight for the 
glory of my Creator. 



340 




I know that I will give God the glory He expects of me if I try faithfully to cooperate with 
God’s grace. 



1549 I want to live in the spirit of faith. I accept everything that comes my way as given me 
by the loving will of God, who sincerely desires my happiness. And so I will accept with 
submission and gratitude everything that God sends me. I will pay no attention to the 
voice of nature and to the promptings of self-love. Before each important action, I will 
stop to consider for a moment what relationship it has to eternal life and what may be 
the main reason for my undertaking it: is it for the glory of God, or for the good of my 
own soul, or for the good of the souls of others? If my heart says yes, then I will not 
swerve from carrying out the given action, (129) unmindful of either obstacles or 
sacrifices. I will not be frightened into abandoning my intention. It is enough for me to 
know that it is pleasing to God. On the other hand, if I learn that the action has nothing 
in common with what I have just mentioned, I will try to elevate it to a loftier sphere by 
means of a good intention. And if I learn that something flows from my self-love, I will 
cancel it out right from the start. 

1550 In cases of doubt, I will not act, but will scrupulously seek clarifications from the priests, 
and in particular from my spiritual director. I will not give explanations on my own behalf 
when someone reproaches me or criticizes me, unless I am directly asked to bear 
witness to the truth. With great patience, I will listen when others open their hearts to 
me, accept their sufferings, give them spiritual comfort, but drown my own sufferings in 
the most merciful Heart of Jesus. I will never leave the depths of His mercy, while 
bringing the whole world into those depths. 

1551 (130) In the meditation on death, I asked the Lord to deign to fill my heart with those 
sentiments which I will have at the moment of my death. And through God’s grace I 
received an interior reply that I had done what was within my power and so could be at 
peace. At that moment, such profound gratitude to God was awakened in my soul that I 
burst into tears of joy like a little child. I prepared to receive Holy Communion next 
morning as “viaticum,” and I said the prayers of the dying 233 for my own intention. 

1552 Then I heard the words: As you are united with Me in life, so will you be united at 
the moment of death. After these words, such great trust in God’s great mercy was 
awakened in my soul that, even if I had had the sins of the whole world, as well as the 
sins of all the condemned souls weighing on my conscience, I would not have doubted 
God’s goodness but, without hesitation, would have thrown myself into the abyss of the 
divine mercy, which is always open to us; and, with a heart crushed to dust, I would 
have cast (131) myself at His feet, abandoning myself totally to His holy will, which is 
mercy itself. 

1553 O my Jesus, Life of my soul, my Life, my Savior, my sweetest Bridegroom, and at the 
same time my Judge, You know that in this last hour of mine I do not count on any 
merits of my own, but only on Your mercy. Even as of today, I immerse myself totally in 
the abyss of Your mercy, which is always open to every soul. 

O my Jesus, I have only one task to carry out in my lifetime, in death, and throughout 
eternity, and that is to adore Your incomprehensible mercy. No mind, either of angel or 
of man, will ever fathom the mysteries of your mercy, O God. The angels are lost in 



341 




amazement before the mystery of divine mercy, but cannot comprehend it. Everything 
that has come from the Creator’s hand is contained in this inconceivable mystery; that is 
to say, in the very depths of His tender mercy. When I meditate on this, my spirit 
swoons, and my heart dissolves in joy. O Jesus, it is through Your most compassionate 
Heart, as through a crystal, ( 132 ) that the rays of divine mercy have come to us. 

1554 February 1 , [1 938]. Today I am feeling a little worse, physically, but I am still taking part 
in the common life [prayers, meals, and recreation], I am making great efforts, known to 
You alone, Jesus. In the refectory today, I did not think I would last until the end of the 
meal. Every mouthful causes me extreme pain. 

1555 When Mother S. [Irene] visited me a week ago, she said, “You catch every sickness, 
Sister, because your system is so weak, but that is not your fault. In fact, if any other 
sister had that same sickness, she would certainly be walking around; whereas you, 
Sister, must stay in bed!!” These words did not hurt me, but it is better not to make such 
comparisons with very sick persons, because their cup is full enough as it is. Another 
thing: when sisters visit the sick, they should not ask in detail every time, “What is 
hurting you, ( 133 ) and how does it hurt?” because it is very tiresome to keep telling 
each sister the same thing about oneself. And it sometimes happens that one must 
repeat the same thing over and over many times a day. 

1556 When I had gone to the chapel for a moment, the Lord gave me to know that, among 
His chosen ones, there are some who are especially chosen, and whom He calls to a 
higher form of holiness, to exceptional union with Him. These are seraphic souls, from 
whom God demands greater love than He does from others. Although all live in the 
same convent, yet He sometimes demands of a particular soul a greater degree of love. 
Such a soul understands this call, because God makes this known to it interiorly, but the 
soul may either follow this call or not. It depends on the soul itself whether it is faithful 
to these touches of the Holy Spirit, or whether it resists them. I have learned that there 
is a place in purgatory where souls will pay their debt to God for such transgressions; 
this kind of torment is the most difficult of all. The soul which is especially marked by 
God ( 134 ) will be distinguished everywhere, whether in heaven or in purgatory or in hell. 
In heaven, it will be distinguished from other souls by greater glory and radiance and 
deeper knowledge of God. In purgatory, by greater pain, because it knows God more 
profoundly and desires Him more vehemently. In hell, it will suffer more profoundly than 
other souls, because it knows more fully whom it has lost. This indelible mark of God’s 
exclusive love, in the [soul], will not be obliterated. 

1557 O Jesus, keep me in holy fear, so that I may not waste graces. Help me to be faithful to 
the inspirations of the Holy Spirit. Grant that my heart may burst for love of You, rather 
than I should neglect even one act of love for You. 

1558 February 2, [1 938]. Darkness of the soul. Today is the Feast of the Mother of God, and 
in my soul it is so dark. The Lord has hidden Himself, and I am alone, all alone. My 
mind has become so dimmed that I see only phantasms about me. Not a single ray of 
light penetrates my soul. I do not understand myself or those who speak to me. 

Frightful temptations ( 135 ) regarding the holy faith assail me. O my Jesus, save me. I 
cannot say anything more. I cannot describe these things in detail, for I fear lest 
someone be scandalized on reading this. I am astounded that such torments could 



342 




befall a soul. O hurricane, what are you doing to the boat of my heart? This storm has 
lasted the whole day and night. 

When Mother Superior [Irene] came in to see me and asked, “Would you like to take 
advantage of this occasion, Sister, since Father An. [Andrasz] is coming to hear 
confessions?” I answered, no. It seemed to me that Father would not understand me, 
nor would I be able to make a confession. 

I spent the whole night with Jesus in Gethsemane. From my breast there escaped one 
continuous moan. A natural dying will be much easier, because then one is in agony 
and will die; while here, one is in agony, but cannot die. O Jesus, I never thought such 
suffering could exist. Nothingness: that is the reality. O Jesus, save me! I believe in 
You will all my heart. So many times have I seen the radiance of Your face, and now, 
where are You, Lord?.... I believe, I believe, and again I believe (136) in You, Triune 
God, Father, Son and Holy Spirit, and in all the truths which Your holy Church gives me 

to believe But the darkness does not recede, and my spirit plunges into even greater 

agony. And at that moment, such terrible torment overwhelmed me that now I am 
amazed at myself that I did not breathe my last, but this was for only a brief instant. 

1559 At that moment I saw Jesus, and from His Heart there issued those same two rays, 
which enveloped me, whole and entire. At the same moment, all my torments vanished. 
My daughter, the Lord said, know that of yourself you are just what you have gone 
through, and it is only by My grace that you are a participant of eternal life and all 
the gifts I lavish on you. And with these words of the Lord, there came to me a true 
knowledge of myself. Jesus is giving me a lesson in deep humility and, at the same 
time, one of total trust in Him. My heart is reduced to dust and ashes, and even if all 
people were to trample me under their feet, I would still consider that (137) a favor. 

I feel and am, in fact, very deeply permeated with the knowledge that I am nothing, so 
that real humiliations will be a refreshment for me. 

1560 February 3, [1 938]. Today after Holy Communion, Jesus again gave me a few 
directives: First, do not fight against a temptation by yourself, but disclose it to 
the confessor at once, and then the temptation will lose all its force. Second, 
during these ordeals do not lose your peace; live in My presence; ask My Mother 
and the Saints for help. Third, have the certitude that I am looking at you and 
supporting you. Fourth, do not fear either struggles of the soul or any 
temptations, because I am supporting you; if only you are willing to fight, know 
that the victory is always on your side. Fifth, know that by fighting bravely you 
give Me great glory and amass merits for yourself. Temptation gives you a 
chance to show Me your fidelity. 

1561 And now I am going to tell you something that is most important for you: 
Boundless sincerity with your spiritual director. If you do not take advantage of 
this great grace according to (138) My instructions, I will take him away from you, 
and then you will be left to yourself; and all the torments, which you know very 
well, will return to you. It displeases Me that you do not take advantage of the 
opportunity when you are able to see him and talk with him. Know that it is a 
great grace on My part when I give a spiritual director to a soul. Many souls ask 
Me for this, but it is not to all that I grant this grace. From the moment when I 



343 




gave you this priest as spiritual director, I endowed him with new light so that he 
might easily know and understand your soul 

1562 O my Jesus, my only mercy, allow me to see contentment in Your face as a sign of 
reconciliation with me, because my heart cannot bear Your seriousness; if this 
continues a moment longer my heart will burst with grief. You see that I am even now 
crushed to dust. 

1563 And at that very moment I saw myself in some kind of a palace; and Jesus gave me His 
hand, sat me at His side, and said with kindness, My bride, you always please Me by 
your humility. The greatest misery does not stop Me from (139) uniting Myself to 
a soul, but where there is pride, I am not there. 

When I came to myself, I reflected on what had happened in my heart, thanking God for 
His love and for the mercy that He had shown me. 

1564 Jesus, hide me; just as You have hidden Yourself under the form of the white Host, so 
hide me from human eyes, and particularly hide the gifts which You so kindly grant me. 
May I not betray outwardly what You are effecting in my soul. I am a white host before 
you, O Divine priest. Consecrate me Yourself, and may my transubstantiation be 
known only to You. I stand before You each day as a sacrificial host and implore Your 
mercy upon the world. In silence, and unseen. I will empty myself before You; my pure 
and undivided love will burn, in profound silence, as a holocaust. And may the 
fragrance of my love be wafted to the foot of Your throne. You are the Lord of lords, but 
You delight in innocent and humble souls. 

1565 (140) When I entered the chapel for a moment, the Lord said to me, My daughter, 
help Me to save a certain dying sinner. Say the chaplet that I have taught you for 
him. When I began to say the chaplet, I saw the man dying in the midst of terrible 
torment and struggle. His Guardian Angel was defending him, but he was, as it were, 
powerless against the enormity of the soul’s misery. A multitude of devils was waiting 
for the soul. But while I was saying the chaplet, I saw Jesus just as He is depicted in 
the image. The rays which issued from Jesus’ Heart enveloped the sick man, and the 
powers of darkness fled in panic. The sick man peacefully breathed his last. When I 
came to myself, I understood how very important the chaplet was for the dying. It 
appeases the anger of God. 

1566 When I was apologizing to the Lord Jesus for a certain action of mine which, a little 
later, turned out to be imperfect, Jesus put me at ease with these words: My daughter, 

I reward you for the purity of your intention which you had (141) at the time when 
you acted. My Heart rejoiced that you had My love under consideration at the 
time you acted, and that in so distinct a way; and even now you still derive benefit 
from this; that is, from the humiliation. Yes, My child, I want you to always have 
such great purity of intention in the very least things you undertake. 

1567 As I took the pen in hand, I addressed a short prayer to the Holy Spirit and said, “Jesus, 
bless this pen so that everything You order me to write may be for the glory of God.” 
Then I heard a voice: Yes, I bless [it], because this writing bears the seal of 
obedience to your superior and confessor, and by that very fact I am already 
given glory, and many souls will be drawing profit from it. My daughter, I demand 



344 




that you devote all your free moments to writing about My goodness and mercy. 

It is your office and your assignment throughout your life to continue to make 
known to souls the great mercy I have for them and to exhort them to trust in My 
bottomless mercy. 

1568 (142) O my Jesus, I believe in Your words and no longer have nay doubt about this 

because in the course of one conversation with Mother Superior [Irene], she told me to 
write more about Your mercy. That statement was very much in accord with Your 
request. O my Jesus, I now understand that if You demand something from a soul, You 
also inspire the superiors to allow us to fulfill Your demands, even though it sometimes 
happens that we do not receive permission at once, and our patience is often put to the 
test 

1569 + O Everlasting Love, Jesus, who have enclosed Yourself in the Host, 

And there in hide Your divinity and conceal Your beauty. 

You do this in order to give Yourself, whole and entire, to my soul 
And in order not to terrify it with Your greatness. 

O Everlasting Love, Jesus, who have shrouded Yourself with bread, 

Eternal Light, incomprehensible Fountain of joy and happiness, 

Because You want to be heaven on earth to me, 

That indeed You are, when Your love, O God, imparts itself to me. 

1570 (143) O Great Merciful God, Infinite Goodness, today all mankind calls out from the 

abyss of its misery to Your mercy - to Your compassion, O God; and it is with its mighty 
voice of misery that it cries out. Gracious God, do not reject the prayer of this earth’s 
exiles! O Lord, Goodness beyond our understanding, Who are acquainted with our 
misery through and through, and know that by our own power we cannot ascend to You, 
we implore You: anticipate us with Your grace and keep on increasing Your mercy in 
us, that we may faithfully do Your holy will all through our life and at death’s hour. Let 
the omnipotence of Your mercy shield us from the darts of our salvation’s enemies, that 
we may with confidence, as Your children, await Your final coming - that day known to 
You alone. And we expect to obtain everything promised us by Jesus in spite of all our 
wretchedness. For Jesus is our Hope: Through His merciful Heart, as through an open 
gate, we pass through to heaven. 

1571 (144) I have noticed that, from the very moment I entered the convent, I have been 
charged with one thing; namely, that I am a saint. But this word was always used 
scoffingly. At first, this hurt me very much, but when I had risen above it, I paid no 
attention to it. However, when on one occasion a certain person [perhaps Father 
Sopocko] suffered because of my sanctity, I was very pained that, because of me, 
others can experience some unpleasantness. And I began to complain to the Lord 
Jesus, asking why this should be so, and the Lord answered me, Are you sad because 
of this? Of course you are a saint. Soon I Myself will make this manifest in you, 
and they will pronounce the same word, saint, only this time it will be with love. 

1572 I remind you, My daughter, that as often as you hear the clock strike the third 
hour, immerse yourself completely in My mercy, adoring and glorifying it; invoke 
its omnipotence for the whole world, and particularly for poor sinners; for at that 
moment mercy was opened wide for every (145) soul. In this hour you can obtain 



345 




everything for yourself and for others for the asking; it was the hour of grace for 
the whole world - mercy triumphed over justice. 

My daughter, try your best to make the Stations of the Cross in this hour, 
provided that your duties permit it; and if you are not able to make the Stations of 
the Cross, then at least step into the chapel for a moment and adore, in the 
Blessed Sacrament, My Heart, which is full of mercy; and should you be unable to 
step into the chapel, immerse yourself in prayer there where you happen to be, if 
only for a very brief instant. I claim veneration for My mercy from every creature, 
but above all from you, since it is to you that I have given the most profound 
understanding of this mystery. 

1573 + O my God, I am overcome with great longing for You today. Oh, nothing else any 
longer occupies my heart. The earth no longer contains anything for me. O Jesus, how 
strongly I feel this exile, how very prolonged it is for me! O death, messenger of God, 
when will you announce to me that longed-for moment, through which I will be united to 
my God forever? 

1574 (146) O my Jesus, may the last days of my exile be spent totally according to Your 

most holy will. I unite my sufferings, my bitterness and my last agony itself to Your 
Sacred Passion; and I offer myself for the whole world to implore an abundance of 
God’s mercy for souls, and in particular for the souls who are in our homes. I firmly trust 
and commit myself entirely to Your holy will, which is mercy itself. Your mercy will be 
everything for me at the last hour, as You Yourself have promised me 

1575 + Hail to You, Eternal Love, my Sweet Jesus, who have condescended to dwell in my 
heart! I salute You, O glorious Godhead who have deigned to stoop to me, and out of 
love for me have so emptied Yourself as to assume the insignificant form of bread. I 
salute You, Jesus, never-fading flower of humanity. You are all there is for my soul. 
Your love is purer than a lily, and Your presence is more pleasing to me than the 
fragrance of a hyacinth. Your friendship is more tender (147) and subtle than the scent 
of a rose, and yet it is stronger than death. O Jesus, incomprehensible beauty, it is with 
pure souls that You communicate best, because they alone are capable of heroism and 
sacrifice. O sweet, rose-red blood of Jesus, ennoble my blood and change it into Your 
own blood, and let this be done to me according to Your good pleasure. 

1576 Know, My daughter, that between Me and you there is a bottomless abyss, an 
abyss which separates the Creator from the creature. But this abyss is filled with 
My mercy. I raise you up to Myself, not that I have need of you, but it is solely out 
of mercy that I grant you the grace of union with Myself. 

1577 Tell souls not to place within their own hearts obstacles to My mercy, which so 
greatly wants to act within them. My mercy works in all those hearts which open 
their doors to it. Both the sinner and the righteous person have need (148) of My 
mercy. Conversion, as well as perseverance, is a grace of My mercy. 

1578 Let souls who are striving for perfection particularly adore My mercy, because the 
abundance of graces which I grant them flows from My mercy. I desire that these 
souls distinguish themselves by boundless trust in My mercy. I myself will attend 
to the sanctification of such souls. I will provide them with everything they will 



346 




need to attain sanctity. The graces of My mercy are drawn by means of one 
vessel only, and that is - trust. The more a soul trusts, the more it will receive. 

Souls that trust boundlessly are a great comfort to Me, because I pour all the 
treasures of My graces into them. I rejoice that they ask for much, because it is 
My desire to give much, very much. On the other hand, I am sad when souls ask 
for little, when they narrow their hearts. 

1579 (149) + It is when I meet with hypocrisy that I suffer most. Now I understand You, my 

Savior, for rebuking the Pharisees so severely for their hypocrisy. You associated more 
graciously with hardened sinners when they approached You contritely. 

1580 My Jesus, I now see that I have gone through all the stages of my life following You: 

childhood, youth, vocation, apostolic work, Tabor, Gethsemane, and now I am already with 
You on Calvary. I have willingly allowed myself to be crucified, and I am indeed already 
crucified; although I can still walk a little, I am stretched out on the cross, and I feel distinctly 
that strength is flowing to me from Your cross, that You and You alone are my perseverance. 
Although I often hear the voice of temptation calling to me, “Come down from the cross!” the 
power of God strengthens me. Although loneliness and darkness and sufferings of all kinds 
beat against my heart, the mysterious power of God supports and strengthens me. I want to 
drink the cup (150) to the last drop. I trust firmly that Your grace, which has sustained me in 
the Garden of Olives, will sustain me also now that I am on Calvary. 

1581 O my Jesus, my Master, I unite my desires to the desires that You had on the cross: I desire 
to fulfill Your holy will; I desire the conversion of souls; I desire that Your mercy be adored; I 
desire that the triumph of the Church be hastened; I desire the Feast of Mercy to be 
celebrated all over the world; I desire sanctity for priests; I desire that there be a saint in our 
Congregation; I desire that our whole Congregation have a great spirit of zeal for the glory of 
God and for the salvation of souls; I desire that souls who live in our homes do not offend 
God, but persevere in good; I desire that the blessing of God descend upon my parents and 
my whole family; I desire that God give special light to my spiritual directors, and in particular 
to Father An. And Father So.; I desire a special blessing (151) for Superiors 234 under whose 
direction I have been, and in particular for Mother General [Michael], for Mother Irene and for 
the Directress of Novices, Mother [Mary] Joseph. 

1 582 O my Jesus, I now embrace the whole world and ask You for mercy for it. When You tell me, 

0 God, that it is enough, that Your holy will has been completely accomplished, then, my 
Savior, in union with You, I will commit my soul into the hands of the Heavenly Father, full of 
trust in Your unfathomable mercy. And when I stand at the foot of Your throne, the first hymn 
that I will sing will be one to Your mercy. Poor earth, I will not forget you. Although I feel that 

1 will be immediately drowned in God as in an ocean of happiness, that will not be an 
obstacle to my returning to earth to encourage souls and incite them to trust in God’s mercy. 
Indeed, this immersion in God will give me the possibility of boundless action. 

1583 As I write this, I hear Satan grinding his teeth. He cannot stand God’s mercy, and keeps 
banging things in my cell. But I feel so much of God’s power within me that it does not even 
bother me that the enemy of our salvation gets angry, (152) and I quietly keep on writing. 

1584 O inconceivable goodness of God, which shields us at every step, may Your mercy be 
praised without cease. That You became a brother to humans, not to angels, is a miracle of 
the unfathomable mystery of Your mercy. All our trust is in You, our first-born Brother, Jesus 



347 




Christ, true God and true Man. My heart flutters with joy to see how good God is to us 
wretched and ungrateful people. And as a proof of His love, He gives us the 
incomprehensible gift of Himself in the person of His Son. Throughout all eternity we shall 
never exhaust that mystery of love. O mankind, why do you think so little about God being 
truly among us? O Lamb of God, I do not know what to admire in You first: Your gentleness, 
Your hidden life, the emptying of Yourself for the sake of man, or the constant miracle of 
Your mercy, which transforms souls (153) and raises them up to eternal life. Although You 
are hidden in this way, Your omnipotence is more manifest here than in the creation of man. 
Though the omnipotence of Your mercy is at work in the justification of the sinner, yet Your 
action is gentle and hidden. 

1585 A vision of the Mother of God. In the midst of a great brilliance, I saw the Mother of God 
clothed in a white gown, girt about with a golden cincture; and there were tiny stars, also of 
gold, over the whole garment, and chevron-shaped sleeves lined with gold,. Her cloak was 
sky-blue, lightly thrown over the shoulders. A transparent veil was delicately drawn over her 
head, while her flowing hair was set off beautifully by a golden crown which terminated in 
little crosses. On Her left arm She held the Child Jesus. A Blessed Mother of this type I had 
not yet seen. Then She looked at me kindly and said: I am the Mother of God of Priests 235 
At that, She lowered Jesus from her arm to the ground, raised Her right hand heavenward 
and said: O God, bless Poland, bless priests. Then She addressed me once again: Tell the 
priests what you have seen. (154) I resolved that at the first opportunity [I would have] of 
seeing Father [Andrasz] I would tell; 

1586 O my Jesus, You see how very grateful I am to Father Sopocko, who has advanced Your 
work so much. That soul, so humble, has had to endure all the storms. He has not allowed 
himself to become discouraged by adversities, but has faithfully responded to the call of God. 

1587 + One of the sisters was appointed to look after the sick, but she was so negligent that one 
had to practice real mortification. One day, I made up my mind to tell the Superior about it, 
but then I heard a voice in my soul: Bear it patiently; someone else will tell her. But the 
service was like that for a whole month. When I was finally able to come down to the 
refectory and to recreation, I heard these words in my soul: Now other sisters are going to 
tell (155) about that sister’s negligent service, but you are to keep silent and not speak 
about the matter. And at that point there broke out sharp criticism of the sister, but she 
could find nothing [to say] in her own defense, and all the sisters said in chorus, “Sister, you 
had better improve in your care of the sick.” I have found that sometimes the Lord does not 
want us to say something on our own; He has His ways and knows when to speak out. 

1588 Today I heard the words: In the Old Covenant I sent prophets wielding thunderbolts to 
My People. Today I am sending you with My mercy to the people of the whole world. I 
do not want to punish aching mankind, but I desire to heal it, pressing it to My Merciful 
Heart. I use punishment when they themselves force Me to do so; My hand is 
reluctant to take hold of the sword of justice. Before the Day of Justice I am sending 
the Day of Mercy. I replied, “O my Jesus, speak to souls Yourself, because my words are 
insignificant.” 

+ 

(156) J.M.J. 

The Soul’s Expectation of the Coming of the Lord. 



348 




1589 



I do not know, O Lord, at what hour You will come. 

And so I keep constant watch and listen 
As Your chosen bride, 

Knowing that You like to come unexpected, 

Yet, a pure heart will sense You from afar, O Lord. 

I wait for You, Lord, in calm and silence, 

With great longing in my heart 
And with invincible desire. 

I feel that my love for You is changing into fire, 

And that it will rise up to heaven like a flame at life’s end, 
And then all my wishes will be fulfilled. 

Come then, at last, my most sweet Lord 

And take my thirsting heart 

There, to Your home in the lofty regions of heaven, 

Where Your eternal life perdures. 

Life on this earth is but an agony, 

As my heart feels it is created for the heights. 

For it the lowlands of this life hold no interest, 

For my homeland is in heaven - this I firmly believe. 

[End of Notebook Five] 



349 




Sr. M. Faustina 



of the Blessed Sacrament 
of the Congregation 
of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy 



The Mercy of God I will 
Praise Forever. 



Notebook VI 



350 




NOTEBOOK VI 



1590 



1591 



1592 



1593 



+ 

(1) J. M. J. 

Praise, O my Soul, 

the incomprehensible mercy of God. 

May all be for His glory. 



Cracow, February 10, 1938 
Sixth Notebook. 

Sister Faustina of the Blessed Sacrament 
Of the Congregation 
Of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy. 



My heart is drawn there where my God is hidden, 

Where He dwells with us day and night, 

Clothed in the White Host; 

He governs the whole world, He communes with souls. 

My heart is drawn there where my God is hiding, 

Where His love is immolated. 

But my heart senses that the living water is here; 

It is my living God, though a veil hides Him. 

(2) February 10, 1938. During meditation, the Lord gave me knowledge of the joy of heaven 
and of the saints on our arrival there; they love God as the sole object of their love, but they 
also have a tender and heartfelt love for us. It is from the face of God that this joy flows, out 
upon all, because we see Him face to face. His face is so sweet that the soul falls anew into 
ecstasy. 

The Lord Himself moves me to write prayers and hymns about His mercy, and these hymns 
of praise force themselves upon my lips. I have noticed that ready-formulated words of 
praise of God’s mercy enter my mind, and so I have resolved to write them down in so far as 
is within my power. I can feel God urging me to do so. 



351 




1594 One of the sisters came into my cell for a little while. After a short conversation on the 
subject of obedience, she said to me, “Oh, now I understand how the saints (3) acted. Thank 
you, Sister; a great light has entered my soul; I have profited much.” 

1595 O my Jesus, this is Your work. It is You who have spoken thus to that soul, because this 
sister came in when I was completely immersed in God, and it was just at that moment when 
this deep recollection left me. O my Jesus, I know that, in order to be useful to souls, one 
has to strive for the closest possible union with You, who are Eternal Love. One word from a 
soul united to God effects more good in souls than eloquent discussions and sermons from 
an imperfect soul. 

1 596 + I saw Father A. [Andrasz’s] surprise at my actions, but all that is for the glory of God. Oh, 

how great is Your grace, O Lord, grace which lifts the soul up to greater heights. I am very 
grateful to the Lord for having given me an enlightened priest. You could have continued to 
leave me in uncertainties and hesitations, but Your goodness (4) remedied that, O my Jesus, 
it is impossible for me to count Your favors 

1597 My daughter, your struggle will last until death. Your last breath will mark its end. 

You shall conquer by meekness. 

1598 February 1 3, 1 938. I saw how unwillingly the Lord Jesus came to certain souls in Holy 
Communion. And He spoke these words to me: I enter into certain hearts as into a 
second Passion. 

1599 As I was trying to make my Holy Hour, I saw the suffering Jesus, who spoke these words to 

me: My daughter, do not pay so much attention to the vessel of grace as to the grace 
itself which I give you, because you are not always pleased with the vessel, and then 
the graces, too, become deficient. I want to guard you from that, and I want you never 
to pay attention to the vessel in which I send you My grace. Let all the attention of 
your soul (5) be concentrated on responding to My grace as faithfully as possible. 

1600 + O my Jesus, if You Yourself do not soothe the longing of my soul, then no one can either 
comfort or soothe it. Your every approach arouses new raptures of love in my soul, but also 
a new agony; because, despite all Your approaches to my soul, even the most exceptional, I 
am still loving You from a distance, and my heart dies in an ecstasy of love; because this is 
still not the complete and eternal union, although You commune with me so very often 
unveiled [as if face to face]; nevertheless, You thereby open in my soul and heart an abyss of 
love and desire for You, my God, and this bottomless abyss, this total desiring of God, 
cannot be completely filled on this earth. 

1601 The Lord has given me to know how much He desires the perfection of chosen souls. 

Chosen souls are, in My hand, lights which I cast into the darkness of the world and 
with which I illumine it. As stars illumine the night, so chosen souls (6) illumine the 
earth. And the more perfect a soul is, the stronger and the more far-reaching is the 
light shed by it. It can be hidden and unknown, even to those closest to it, and yet its 
holiness is reflected in souls even to the most distant extremities of the world. 

1602 Today the Lord said to me, Daughter, when you go to confession, to this fountain of My 
mercy, the Blood and Water which came forth from My Heart always flows down upon 



352 




your soul and ennobles it. Every time you go to confession, immerse yourself entirely 
in My mercy, with great trust, so that I may pour the bounty of My grace upon your 
soul. When you approach the confessional, know this, that I Myself am waiting there 
for you. I am only hidden by the priest, but I Myself act in your soul. Here the misery 
of the soul meets the God of mercy. Tell souls that from this fount of mercy (7) souls 
draw graces solely with the vessel of trust. If their trust is great, there is no limit to My 
generosity. The torrents of grace inundate humble souls. The proud remain always in 
poverty and misery, because My grace turns away from them to humble souls. 

1 603 February 1 4, [1 938]. During adoration, I heard these words: Pray for one of the students 
who has great need of My grace. And I recognized N. I prayed hard, and God’s mercy 
embraced that soul. 

1604 When, during adoration, I repeated the prayer, “Holy God” several times, a vivid presence of 
God suddenly swept over me, and I was caught up in spirit before the majesty of God. I saw 
how the Angels and the Saints of the Lord give glory to God. The glory of God is so great 
that I dare not try to describe it, because I would not be able to do so, and souls might think 
that what I have written (8) is all there is. Saint Paul, I understand now why you did not want 
to describe heaven, but only said that eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor has it entered into 
the heart of man what God has prepared for those who love Him [cf. I Cor. 2:9; 2 Cor. 1 2:1 - 
7], Yes, that is indeed so. And all that has come forth from God returns to Him in the same 
way and gives Him perfect glory. Now I have seen the way in which I adore God; oh, how 
miserable it is! And what a tiny drop it is in comparison to that perfect heavenly glory. O my 
God, how good You are to accept my praise as well, and to turn Your Face to me with 
kindness and let us know that our prayer is pleasing to You. 

1605 Write down everything that occurs to you regarding My goodness. I answered, “What 
do You mean, Lord, what if I write too much?” And the Lord replied, My daughter, even if 
you were to speak at one and the same time in all human and angelic tongues, even 
then you would not have said very much, but on the contrary, you would have sung in 
only a small measure the praises (9) of My goodness - of My unfathomable mercy. 

O my Jesus, You Yourself must put words into my mouth, that I may praise You worthily. 

My daughter, be at peace; do as I tell you. Your thoughts are united to My thoughts, 
so write whatever comes to your mind. You are the secretary of My mercy. I have 
chosen you for that office in this life and the next life. That is how I want it to be in 
spite of all the opposition they will give you. Know that My choice will not change. 

At that moment I steeped myself in profound humility before God’s majesty. But the more I 
humbled myself, the more God’s presence penetrated me 

1606 O Jesus, my only solace! How frightful is this exile! How terrible this wilderness I have to 
cross! My soul is struggling through a terrible thicket of all kinds of difficulties. If You 
Yourself did not support me, Lord, there would be no thought of my moving forward. 

1 607 (10) 16 [February] 1 938. As I was praying to the living Heart of Jesus in the Blessed 
Sacrament for the intention of a certain priest, Jesus suddenly gave me knowledge of His 
goodness and said to me, I will give him nothing that is beyond his strength. 



353 




1608 + When I learned of some sufferings and troubles that a certain person 236 was going through 
in connection with this whole work of God, I asked the Lord Jesus before Holy Communion 
that He might make known to me whether by any chance these sufferings were not caused 
by me: “My sweetest Jesus, I implore You by Your infinite goodness and mercy, make 
known to me whether anything in this matter displeases You or whether there is some fault of 
mine in this. If there is, I ask You, when You enter my heart, fill it with unrest and make 
known to me Your displeasure. And if I am not guilty in this matter, confirm me in peace.” 
When I received the Lord, my soul was filled with great peace, and the Lord gave me to know 
that the work was undergoing a trial, but (1 1 ) was no less pleasing to God because of this. I 
felt great joy at this but I redoubled my prayers so that this work might come through the 
ordeal unharmed. 

1609 O my Jesus, how good it is to be on the cross, but with You! With You, my Love, my soul is 
constantly stretched out on the cross and is being filled with bitterness. Vinegar and gall 
touch my lips, but it is good that it is so, because Your Divine Heart was filled with bitterness 
throughout Your life, and in return for Your love You received ingratitude. You were in such 
pain that a sorrowful complaint escaped Your lips when You said that You were looking for 
someone to console You and You found none [cf. Ps. 68:21], 

1610 + When I asked the Lord to be so good as to cast a glance upon a certain soul [probably 
Father Sopocko] who was struggling alone against many difficulties, the Lord gave me to 
know, in an instant, that all people are as dust under His feet. So do not worry; you see 
that they cannot do a thing of themselves. And if I allow them to seem to triumph, I do 
this for the sake of My (12) impenetrable decrees. I experienced great peace in seeing 
how all things are determined by the Lord. 

1611 + When the chaplain [Father Theodore] brings me the Lord Jesus, there are moments when I 
am pervaded with a very vivid presence of God, and the Lord gives me to know His holiness. 
At such times, I see the smallest speck on my soul, and I would like to purify my soul before 
every Holy Communion. When I asked the confessor, he said there was no need to confess 
before every Holy Communion. Holy Communion takes away these tiny things and it is a 
temptation to think about confession when receiving Holy Communion. I did not go on to 
explain the condition of my soul in any greater detail, because he was not my director, but 
the confessor. 237 This knowledge does not take up my time, because it is faster than 
lightning; it enkindles my love, leaving me with a knowledge of myself.... 

1612 (13) + February 20, [1938]. Today the Lord said to me, I have need of your sufferings to 
rescue souls. 

0 my Jesus, do with me as You please. I did not have the courage to ask the Lord Jesus for 
greater sufferings, because I had suffered so much the night before that I would not have 
been able to hear a drop more than what Jesus Himself gave me. 

161 3 Almost all night I had such violent pains that it seemed all my intestines were torn to pieces. 

1 threw up the medicine I had taken. When I bowed my head down to the ground, I lost 
consciousness, and I stayed like that for some time, with my head (14) on the floor. When I 
came to, I became aware that my whole body was pressing on my head and face, and that I 
was covered with vomit. I thought it would be the end of me. Dear Mother Superior [Irene] 
and Sister Tarcisia 238 were trying to help me as best they could. Jesus demanded suffering, 



354 




but not death. O my Jesus, do with me as You please. Only give me strength to suffer. 

Since Your strength supports me, I shall bear everything. O souls, how I love you! 

161 4 Today, one of the sisters [probably Sister Amelia 239 ] came to see me and said, “Sister, I have 
a strange feeling, as though something were telling me to come to you and commend to you 
certain problems of mine before you die, and that perhaps you will able to beseech the Lord 
Jesus and arrange these things for me. Something keeps telling me that you will be able to 
obtain this for me.” I answered her with equal frankness that, yes, I felt in my soul that (15) 
after my death I would be able to obtain more from the Lord Jesus than at the present time. 

“I will remember you, Sister, before His throne.” 

161 5 When I entered the neighboring dormitory to visit the sisters who were ill, one of them said to 
me, “Sister, when you die I will not fear you at all. Come to see me after you die, because I 
want to confide to you a secret concerning my soul, something I want you to settle for me 
with the Lord Jesus. I know you can obtain this from Him.” Because she was speaking in 
public I answered her in this way: “The Lord Jesus is very discreet. And so He never 
betrays to anyone a secret that is between Him and a soul.” 

1616 + O my Lord, thank You for conforming me to Yourself through immolation. I see that this 
earthly vessel is beginning to crumble. I rejoice in this, (16) because soon I will be in my 
Father’s house [cf. Jn. 14:2], 

1617 February 27, [1938]. Today, I went to confession to Father An. [Andrasz] I did as Jesus 
wanted. After confession, a surge of light filled my soul. Then I heard a voice: Because 
you are a child, you shall remain close to My Heart. Your simplicity is more pleasing 
to Me than your mortifications. 

161 8 Father An. [Andrasz’s] words: Live more by faith. Pray that the Divine Mercy become more 

widely known, and that the work may come into good hands that will manage it well. As for 
yourself, try to be a good religious here - although things may turn out that way also - but try 
to be a good religious right here. And now, if you feel those urgings from the Lord and 
recognize that it is He, follow them. Devote to prayer all the time that is set apart for it, and 
make your notations afterwards 

1619 (17) + The last two days of carnival. 240 My physical sufferings have intensified. I am uniting 
myself more closely with the suffering Savior, asking Him for mercy for the whole world, 
which is running riot in its wickedness. Throughout the day I felt the pain of the crown of 
thorns. When I lay down, I could not rest my head on the pillow. But at ten o’clock the pains 
ceased, and I feel asleep; but the next day I felt very exhausted. 

1620 + Jesus-Host, if You Yourself did not sustain me, I would not be able to persevere on the 
cross. I would not be able to endure so much suffering. But the power of Your grace 
maintains me on a higher level and makes my sufferings meritorious. You give me strength 
always to move forward and to gain heaven by force and to have love in my heart for those 
from whom I suffer adversities and contempt. With Your grace one can do all things. 

1621 (18) March 1,1938. One-day Retreat. 

In meditation, I learned that I should hide myself as deeply as possible in the Heart of Jesus, 
meditate upon His Sorrowful Passion, and penetrate into the sentiments of His Divine Heart, 



355 




which is full of mercy for sinners. In order to obtain mercy for them, I will empty myself at 
every moment, living by the will of God. 

1622 Throughout this Lent, I am a host in Your hand, Jesus. Make use of me so that You may 
enter into sinners Yourself. Demand anything You like; no sacrifice will seem too much for 
me when souls are at stake. 

1623 + I have offered this whole month’s Masses and Holy Communions for the intention of Father 
Andrasz, that God may give him an ever deeper knowledge of His love and mercy. 

1624 This month I will practice the three virtues recommended to me by the Mother of God: 
humility, (19) purity and love of God, accepting with profound submission to the will of god 
everything that He will send me. 

1625 March 2, [1938]. I began Holy Lent in the way that Jesus wanted me to, making myself 
totally dependent upon His holy will and accepting with love everything that he sends me. I 
cannot practice any greater mortifications, because I am so very weak. This long illness has 
sapped my strength completely. I am uniting myself with Jesus through suffering. When I 
meditate on His Painful Passion, my physical sufferings are lessened. 

1626 The Lord said to me, I am taking you into My school for the whole of Lent. I want to 

teach you how to suffer. I answered, “With You, Lord, I am ready for everything.” And I 
heard a voice. You are allowed to drink from the cup from which I drink. I give you that 
exclusive privilege today 

1627 (20) Today I felt the Passion of Jesus in my whole body, and the Lord gave me knowledge of 
the conversion of certain souls. 

1628 During Holy Mass, I saw Jesus stretched out on the Cross, and He said to me, My pupil, 

have great love for those who cause you suffering. Do good to those who hate you. I 
answered, “O my Master, You see very well that I feel no love for them, and that troubles 
me.” Jesus answered, It is not always within your power to control your feelings. You 
will recognize that you have love if, after having experienced annoyance and 
contradiction, you do not lose your peace, but pray for those who have made you 
suffer and wish them well. When I returned [ ] 

+ 

(21) J. M. J. 

1629 I am a host in Your hand, 

O Jesus, my Creator and Lord, 

Silent, hidden, without beauty or charm, 

Because all the beauty of my soul is imprinted within me. 

I am a host in Your hand, O Divine Priest, 

Do with me as You please; 

I am totally dependent on Your will, O Lord 
Because it is the delight and adornment of my soul. 



356 




I am like a white host in Your hand, O God, 

I implore You, transform me into Yourself. 

May I be wholly hidden in You, 

Locked in Your merciful Heart as in Heaven. 

I am like a host in Your hand, O Eternal Priest, 

May the wafer of my body hide me from human eye; 

May Your eye alone measure my love and devotion, 

Because my heart is always united with Your Divine Heart. 

I am like a sacrificial host in Your hand, O Divine Mediator, 

And I burn on the altar of holocaust, 

( 22 ) Crushed and ground by suffering like grains of what, 

And all this for the sake of Your glory, for the salvation of souls. 

I am a host abiding in the tabernacle of Your Heart. 

I go through life drowned in Your love, 

And I fear nothing in the world, 

For You Yourself are my shield, my strength, and my defense. 

I am a host, laid on the altar of Your Heart, 

To burn forever with the fire of love, 

For I know that You have lifted me up solely because of Your mercy, 

And so I turn all the gifts and graces to Your glory. 

I am a host in Your hand, O Judge and Savior. 

In the last hour of my life, 

May the omnipotence of Your grace lead me to my goal, 

May Your compassion on the vessel of mercy become famous. 

1630 Jesus, fortify the powers of my soul that the enemy gain nothing. Without You, I am 
weakness itself. What am I without Your grace (23) if not an abyss of my own misery? 

Misery is my possession. 

1631 O Wound of Mercy, Heart of Jesus, hide me in Your depths as a drop of Your own blood, and 
do not let me out forever! Lock me in Your depths, and do You Yourself teach me to love 
You! Eternal Love, do You Yourself form my soul that it be made capable of returning Your 
love. O living Love, enable me to love You forever. I yearn to eternally reciprocate Your 
love. O Christ, a single gaze from You is dearer to me than a thousand worlds, than all 
heaven itself. Lord, You can make my soul capable of understanding completely who You 
are. I know and I believe that You can do all things; if You have deigned to give Yourself to 
me so generously, then I know that You can be even more generous. Bring me into an 
intimacy with You so far as it is possible for human nature to be brought.... 

+ 

(24) J. M. J. 

1632 The desires of my heart are so great and incomprehensible 
That nothing can fill the abyss of my heart. 

Even the most beautiful things, gathered from all over the world. 



357 




Would not for a moment fill Your place for me, O God. 

With one glance, I penetrated the whole world, 

And I found no other love like the love of my heart. 

Therefore I looked into the world of eternity - 
Because this one is too small for me. 

My heart has desired the love of the Immortal One. 

My heart has sensed that I am a royal child, 

That I have found myself in exile, in a foreign land. 

I see that the heavenly palace is my home; 

Only there will I feel as in my own fatherland. 

You Yourself have drawn my soul to You, O Lord; 

O Eternal Word, You Yourself have stooped to me, 

Giving my soul a deeper knowledge of Yourself. 

Behold, the mystery of love for which You have created me! 

Pure love has made me strong and brave. 

I fear neither the seraphim nor the cherubim, standing with sword in hand, 

(25) And I pass over with ease where others tremble, 

Because there is nothing to fear, there where love is the guide. 

And suddenly the eye of my soul came to rest upon You, 

O Lord Jesus Christ, stretched upon the Cross. 

Here is my Love, with whom I will rest in my grave, 

This is my Bridegroom, my incomprehensible Lord and God. 

[Here occurs a bigger space in the Diary.] 

1633 (26) March 10, [1938]. Continuous physical suffering. I am on the cross with Jesus. On one 
occasion, M. Superior [Irene] said to me, “It is a lack of love of neighbor on your part, Sister, 
that you eat something and then you suffer and disturb the others during their night’s rest.” 
Yet I know for sure that these pains which occur in my intestines are not all caused by food. 
The doctor [probably Dr. Silberg] has said the same thing. These sufferings come from the 
body itself, or rather are a visitation of the Lord. Nevertheless, after that remark I resolved to 
suffer in secret and not to ask for help, because it is of no avail anyway, since I throw up the 
medicines that are given to me. 

Many a time, I have managed to suffer through attacks that were known only to Jesus. The 
pains are so violent and severe that they cause me to lose consciousness. When they cause 
me to faint, and I am drenched in cold sweat, then they gradually begin to go away. 
Sometimes they last (27) three hours or more. O my Jesus, may Your holy will be done; I 
accept everything from Your hand. If I accept the delights and raptures of love to the point of 
becoming oblivious to what is going on around me, it is only right that I should accept with 
love these sufferings which cause me to faint. 

1634 When the doctor 241 came, I could not go down to the parlor to see him, like the other sisters, 
but asked that he come to my cell, because I could not go down due to a certain difficulty. 
After a while, he came to the cell and, having examined me, said, “I’ll tell everything to the 



358 




Sister Infirmarian.” When the Sister Infirmarian came, after the doctor had left, I told her why 
I hadn’t been able to go down to the parlor, but she gave me to know how very displeased 
she was. And when I asked, “Sister, what did the doctor say about these pains?” she 
answered that he had said nothing, that it was nothing, (28) that he had said the patient was 
just sulking. And with that she went off. Then I said to God, “Christ, give me strength and 
power to suffer; give to my heart a pure love for this sister.” After that, she did not look in on 
me again for a whole week. But the sufferings returned with great violence and lasted almost 
the whole night, and it seemed that it would be the end, then and there. The superiors 
decided to approach another doctor, 242 and he ascertained that my condition was serious 
and said to me, “It will not be possible to return you to good health. We can remedy your 
condition partially, but complete recovery is out of question.” He prescribed a medicine for 
the pains, and after I had taken it, the major attacks did not return. “But if you come here, 
Sister, we will try to patch up your health somehow, if that is still possible.” The doctor very 
much wanted me to go there for a treatment. 243 O my Jesus, how strange are Your decrees! 

1635 Jesus orders me to write all this (29) for the consolation of other souls who will often be 
exposed to similar sufferings. 

1636 Although I was feeling very weak, I went to see the doctor [Silberg], because that was the 
superior’s will. The sister who was my companion was very unhappy about this. She made 
this known to me several times and finally said, “What are we going to do? I don’t have 
enough money to pay for the cab.” I answered nothing. “And what if there is no cab? How 
are we going to get there? It’s such a long way.” She said this and many other things just to 
worry me, because our dear superiors had given us enough money for everything, and we 
didn’t run short. And understanding this whole business within myself, I laughed and told 
sister that I was not worried one bit: “Let’s trust in God.” But I saw that my deep peace was 
getting on her nerves, and so I started to pray for her intention. 

1637 O my Lord, all this is (30) for You and to obtain mercy for poor sinners. When I returned, I 
was so very tired that I had to lie down right away. But it was the day for the quarterly 
confession. I tried to go to confession, not only because I had need to do so, but also to ask 
advice of my spiritual director [Father Andraszj. I began to prepare myself; however I felt so 
weak that I decided to go ask Mother Superior [Irene] to allow me to go before the novices. 
Mother Superior answered, “Go and look for the Directress of Novices [Sister Callista], If she 
allows you to go before the novices, it is all right with me.” However, there were only three 
sisters ahead of me, waiting for confession, and so I waited because I did not have enough 
strength to go and look for the Directress of Novices. When I went in to make my confession 

I was feeling so bad that I could not give an account of the condition of my soul; I barely 
managed to make my confession. At that point, I noted how much the spirit (31) is needed; 
the letter itself does not make love grow [cf. 2 Cor. 3:6]. 

1638 On that day, there arose some misunderstandings between the Superior and myself. Neither 
she nor I was to blame, but moral suffering remained, because I could not explain the matter 
in question, since it was a secret. This was the reason why I suffered, even though, by a 
single word, I could have revealed the truth. 

1639 The 20 th [of March], Today, in spirit, I accompanied a certain dying soul. I obtained trust in 
God’s mercy for her. The soul was near despair. 



359 




1 640 This night is known only to You, O Lord. I have offered it for poor obdurate sinners, to obtain 
Your mercy for them. Scourge me here, burn me here, as long as You give me the souls of 

sinners, and especially O Jesus, with You nothing is lost; take everything and give me 

souls sinners. 

1641 (32) At adoration during the Forty-Hours’ Devotion, the Lord said to me, My daughter, write 
that involuntary offenses of souls do not hinder My love for them or prevent Me from 
uniting Myself with them. But voluntary offenses, even the smallest, obstruct My 
graces, and I cannot lavish My gifts on such souls. 

1642 + Jesus gave me to know of how everything is dependent on His will, thus giving me 
profound peace as regards the security of His work. 

1643 Listen, My daughter, although all the works that come into being by My will are 
exposed to great sufferings, consider whether any of them has been subject to greater 
difficulties than that work which is directly Mine - the work of Redemption. You 
should not worry too much about adversities. The world is not as powerful as it 
seems to be; its strength is strictly limited. (33) Know, My daughter, that if your soul 
is filled with the fire of My pure love, then all difficulties dissipate like fog before the 
sun’s rays and dare not touch the soul. All adversaries are afraid to start a quarrel 
with such a soul, because they sense that it is stronger than the whole world. 

1 644 My daughter, do as much for this work of mercy as obedience allows, but present 

clearly to your confessor the very least of My demands, and he will decide. You must 
not shirk in any way, but carry out everything faithfully; otherwise, I would find no 
pleasure in you 

1645 March 25, 1938. Today, I saw the suffering Lord Jesus. He leaned down toward me and 
whispered softly, My daughter, help Me to save sinners. Suddenly, a burning desire to 
save souls entered my soul. When I recovered my senses, I knew (34) just how I was to help 
souls, and I prepared myself for greater sufferings. 

1646 + Today [probably Friday, March 25, 1938] my suffering increased; in addition, I felt wounds 
in my hands, feet and side. I endured this with patience. I sensed the hostility of the enemy 
of souls, but he did not touch me. 

1647 April 1, [1938]. Once again, I am feeling worse today. A high fever is beginning to consume 
me, and I cannot take any food. I would like to have something refreshing to drink, but there 
is not even any water in my pitcher. All this, O Jesus, to obtain mercy for souls. 

Just as I was renewing my intention with greater love, one of the novices came in and gave 
me a big orange which had been sent by the Directress of Novices [Sister Callista]. I saw the 
Lord’s hand in this. The same thing happened again, several times. (35) During this time, 
although my needs were known, I never received anything refreshing to eat, even though I 
had asked for it. However, I knew that God was demanding suffering and sacrifices. I am 
not writing in detail about these refusals, because these are delicate matters, and it is difficult 
to believe. Yet God can demand even such sacrifices. 

1648 I was about to ask Mother Superior [Irene] to allow me to have something in my cell with 
which to quench my great thirst, but before I managed to ask, Mother herself began to speak. 



360 




“Sister, let’s make an end of this illness once and for all, one way or another. You’ll have to 
undergo regular treatment or something. Things can’t go on like this any longer.” A little 
later when I was alone I said, “Christ, what am I to do? Am I to ask You for health or for 
death?” I had no clear command, so I knelt down and said, “May Your holy will be done in 
my regard. Do with me, Jesus, as You please.” (36) At that very moment, I felt as though I 
were all alone, and various temptations attacked me. But I found peace and light in earnest 
prayer, and I understood that the superior only wished to test me. 

1649 I don’t know how this happens, but the room in which I have been lying has been very much 
neglected. Sometimes, it has not been cleaned for more than two weeks. Often, no one 
would light a fire in the stove, and so my cough would get worse. Sometimes I would ask to 
have a fire lit, and at other times I did not have the courage to ask. On one occasion, when 
Mother Superior [Irene] came to see me and asked me if perhaps it was necessary to heat 
the room more, I said, No, because it was already getting warmer outside, and we had the 
window open. 

1650 First Friday. When I took the Messenger of the Sacred He4art into my hand and read the 

account of the canonization of Saint Andrew Bobola, my soul was instantly filled with a great 
longing (37) that our Congregation, too, might have a saint, and I wept like a child that there 
was no saint in our midst. And I said to the Lord, “I know Your generosity, and yet it seems 
to me that You are less generous toward us.” And I began again to weep like a little child. 
And the Lord Jesus said to me, Don’t cry. You are that saint. Then the light of God 
inundated my soul, and I was given to know how much I was to suffer, and I said to the Lord, 
“How will that come about? You have been speaking to me about another Congregation.” 
And the Lord answered. It is not for you to know how this will come about. Your duty is 
to be faithful to My grace and to do always what is within your power and what 
obedience allows you to do 

1651 + Today one of the sisters came into my room and said that such-and-such a sister was very 
fussy over her own illness, and that she found this very annoying and would gladly give her 
piece of her mind were it not for the fact that she was not a member of this convent. I 
answered that I was surprised that she should even think in such a way: “Sister, just think of 

how many sleepless nights this sick sister has been through and of how many tears ” The 

sister than came to think differently. 

+ 

(38) J. M. J. 

1652 Adore, my soul, the mercy of the Lord, 

O my heart, rejoice wholly in Him, 

Because for this you have been chosen by Him, 

To spread the glory of his mercy. 

His goodness no one has fathomed, no one can measure, 

His compassion is untold. 

Every soul that approaches Him experiences this. 

He will shield her and clasp her to His merciful bosom. 

Happy the soul that has trusted in Your goodness 
And has abandoned herself completely to Your mercy. 



361 




Her soul is filled with the peace of love 
You defend her everywhere as Your own child. 



0 soul, whoever you may be in this world, 

Even if your sins were as black as night, 

Do not fear God, weak child that you are, 

For great is the power of God’s mercy. 

+ 

(39) J. M. J. 

1653 The light above, where my God reigns, 

This it is that my soul yearns for, 

This it is for which my heart longs, 

And my whole being bounds towards You. 

1 hasten on to the other world, to God alone, 

Into the incomprehensible light, the very fire of love, 
For my soul and my heart are created for Him, 

And my heart has loved Him from my tender youth. 

There, in the resplendent light of Your countenance 
My languishing love will rest. 

For Your virgin agonizes for You in her exile, 

For she lives only when united with You. 

+ 

J. M. J. 

My day is drawing to a close, 

Even now I glimpse the refulgence of Your light, O my God. 
No one shall learn of what my heart is feeling; 

My lips shall fall silent in great humility. 

( 40 ) Even now, I draw nigh to the eternal nuptials, 
To heaven unending, to spaces without limit. 

I long for no repose or reward; 

The pure love of God draws me to heaven. 

Even now, I go to meet You, eternal Love 
With a heart languishing in its desire for You. 

I feel that Your pure Love, Lord, dwells in my heart, 

And I sense my eternal destiny in heaven. 

Even now, I go to my Father, in heaven eternal, 
From the land of exile, from this vale of tears, 

The earth can no longer hold back my pure heart, 
And the heights of heaven have drawn me close. 



362 




I go, O my Bridegroom, I go to see Your glory, 

Which even now fills my soul with joy 

There where all heaven is plunged in Your adoration, 

I feel that my worship is pleasing to You, nothingness though I am. 

In eternal happiness, I will not forget those on earth, 

I will obtain God’s mercy for all, 

(41) And I will remember especially those who were dear to my heart, 

And the deepest absorption in God will not allow me to forget them. 

In these lat moments I know not how to converse with others. 

In silence I await only You, O Lord. 

I know the time will come when all will understand the work of God in my soul. 

I know that such is Your will. - So be it. 

+ 

1654 J.M.J. 

0 truth, O thorny life, 

In order to pass through you victoriously 
It is necessary to lean on You, O Christ, 

And to be always close to You. 

1 would not know how to suffer without You, O Christ. 

Of myself I would not be able to brave adversities. 

Alone, I would not have the courage to drink from Your cup; 

But You, Lord, are always with me, and You lead me along mysterious paths. 

A weak child, I have begun the battle in Your Name. 

I have fought bravely, though often without success, 

(42) And I know that my efforts have pleased You, 

And I know that it is the effort alone which You eternally reward. 

0 truth, O life-and-death struggle, 

When I rose to do battle, an inexperienced knight, 

1 felt I had a knight’s blood, though still a child, 

And therefore, O Christ, I needed Your help and protection. 

My heart will not rest from its efforts and struggle 
Until You Yourself call me from the field of battle. 

I will stand before You, not to receive a reward, 

But to be drowned in You, in peace forever. 

1655 + O Christ, if my soul had known, all at once, what it was going to have to suffer during its 
lifetime, it would have died of terror at the very sight; it would not have touched its lips to the 
cup of bitterness. But as it has been given to drink a drop at a time, it has emptied the cup to 
the very bottom. O Christ, if You Yourself did not support the soul, how much could it do of 



363 




itself? We are strong, but with Your strength; we are holy, but with Your holiness. And of 
ourselves, what are we? - less than nothing 

(43) + My Jesus, You suffice me for everything else in the world. Although the sufferings are 
severe, You sustain me. Although the times of loneliness are terrible, You make them sweet 
for me. Although the weakness is great, You change it into power for me. 

1656 I do not know how to describe all that I suffer, and what I have written thus far is merely a 
drop. There are moments of suffering about which I really cannot write. But there are also 
moments in my life when my lips are silent, and there are no words for my defense, and I 
submit myself completely to the will of God; then the Lord Himself defends me and makes 
claims on my behalf, and His demands are such that they can be noticed exteriorly. 
Nevertheless, when I perceive His major interventions, which manifest themselves by way of 
punishment, then I beg Him earnestly for mercy and forgiveness. Yet I am not always heard. 
The Lord acts toward me in a mysterious manner. There are times when He Himself allows 
terrible sufferings, and then again there are times when He does not let me suffer and 
removes everything (44) that might afflict my soul. These are his ways, unfathomable and 
incomprehensible to us. It is for us to submit ourselves completely to His holy will. There are 
mysteries that the human mind will never fathom here on earth; eternity will reveal them. 

1657 April 10, 1938. Palm Sunday. I attended Holy Mass, but did not have the strength to go and 
get the palm. 244 I felt so weak that I barely made it till the end of Mass. During Mass, Jesus 
gave me to know the pain of His soul, and I could clearly feel how the hymns of Hosanna 
reverberated as a painful echo in His Sacred Heart. My soul, too, was inundated by a sea of 
bitterness, and each Hosanna pierced my own heart to its depths. My whole soul was drawn 
close to Jesus. I heard Jesus’ voice: My daughter, your compassion for Me refreshes 
Me. By meditating on My Passion, your soul acquires a distinct beauty. 

1658 ( 45 ) I received Holy Communion upstairs, for there was no question of my going down to the 
chapel since I was exhausted because of intense sweating, and when that passed, I had a 
fever and chills. I felt completely worn out. Today, one of the Jesuit Fathers [Father 
Zukowicz 245 ] brought us Holy Communion. He gave the Lord to three other sisters and then 
to me; and thinking I was the last, he gave me two Hosts. But one of the novices was lying in 
bed in the next cell, and there was no Host left for her. The priest went back again and 
brought her the Lord, but Jesus told me, I enter that heart unwillingly. You received 
those two Hosts, because I delayed My coming into this soul who resists My grace. 

My visit to such a soul is not pleasant for Me. At that point, my soul was drawn close to 
Him, and I received a deep inner light which gave me to understand, in spirit, all the workings 
of mercy. It was like a flash of lightning, but more distinct than if I had watched it for hours 
with the eyes of my body. 

1659 (46) Still, in order to write anything at all, I must make use of words, though they cannot 
render all of what my soul enjoyed on seeing the glory of God’s mercy. The glory of the 
Divine Mercy is resounding, even now, in spite of the efforts of its enemies and of Satan 
himself, who has a great hatred for God’s mercy. This work will snatch a great number of 
souls from him, and that is why the spirit of darkness sometimes tempts good people 
violently, so that they may hinder the work. But I have clearly seen that the will of God is 
already being carried out, and that it will be accomplished to the very last detail. The 
enemy’s greatest efforts will not thwart the smallest detail of what the Lord has decreed. No 



364 




matter if there are times when the work seems to be completely destroyed; it is then that the 
work is being all the more consolidated. 

1660 My soul was filled with a peace much deeper than anything I had experienced before, a 
divine reassurance which nothing can efface, a deep peace which nothing can disturb, even 
though I were to go through the severest of ordeals. (47) I am at peace; God Himself 
governs all things. 

1661 I spent the whole day in thanksgiving, and gratitude kept flooding my soul. O my God, how 
good You are, how great is Your mercy! You visit me with so many graces, me who am a 
most wretched speck of dust. Prostrating myself at Your feet, O Lord, I confess with a 
sincere heart that I have done nothing to deserve even the least of Your graces. It is in Your 
infinite goodness that You give Yourself to me so generously. Therefore, the greater the 
graces which my heart receives, the deeper it plunges itself in humility. 

1662 + O Christ, suffering for You is the delight of my heart and my soul. Prolong my sufferings to 
infinity, that I may give You a proof of my love. I accept everything that Your hand will hold 
out to me. Your love, Jesus, is enough for me. I will glorify You in abandonment and 
darkness, in agony and fear, (48) in pain and bitterness, in anguish of spirit and grief of heart. 
In all things may You be blessed. My heart is so detached from the earth, that You Yourself 
are enough for me. There is no longer any moment in my life for self concern. 

1663 Holy Thursday [April 14, 1938]. Today I felt strong enough to take part in the ceremonies of 
the Church. During Holy Mass, Jesus stood before me and said, Look into My Heart and 
see there the love and mercy which I have for humankind, and especially for sinners. 
Look, and enter into My Passion. In an instant, I experienced and lived through the whole 
Passion of Jesus in my own heart. I was surprised that these tortures did not deprive me of 
my life. 

1664 During adoration, Jesus said to me, My daughter, know that your ardent love and the 
compassion you have for Me were a consolation to Me in the Garden [of Olives]. 

1665 (49) During Holy Hour in the evening, I heard the words, You see My mercy for sinners, 
which at this moment is revealing itself in all its power. See how little you have written 
about it; it is only a single drop. Do what is in your power, so that sinners may come 
to know My goodness. 

1 666 Good Friday [April 1 5, 1 938] I saw the Lord Jesus, tortured, but not nailed to the Cross. It 
was still before the crucifixion, and He said to me, You are My Heart. Speak to sinners 
about My mercy. And the Lord gave me interior knowledge of the whole abyss of His mercy 
for souls, and I learned that that which I had written is truly a drop. 

1667 Holy Saturday [April 16, 1938]. During adoration, the Lord said to me, Be at peace, My 
daughter. This Work of mercy is Mine; there is nothing of you in it. It pleases Me that 
you are carrying out faithfully what I have commanded you to do, not adding or taking 
away a single word. And he gave me an interior light by (50) which I learned that not a 
single word was mine; despite difficulties and adversities. I have always, always, fulfilled His 
will, as he has made it known to me. 



365 




1668 The Resurrection. Before the Mass of the resurrection, I felt so weak that I lost all hope of 
participating in the procession which takes place in the church; and I said to the Lord, “Jesus, 
if my prayers are pleasing to You, give me the strength for this moment that I may take part 
in the procession.” At that same instant, I felt strong and certain that I could go along with 
the sisters in the procession. 

1669 When the procession began, I saw Jesus in a brightness greater than the light of the sun. 
Jesus looked at me with love and said, Heart of My Heart, be filled with joy. At that 

moment my spirit was drowned in Him When I came to myself, I was walking along in the 

procession with the sisters, while my soul was totally immersed in Him 

1670 (51) + Easter [April 17, 1938]. During Mass, I thanked the Lord Jesus for having deigned to 
redeem us and for having given us that greatest of all gifts; namely, His love in Holy 
Communion; that is, His very own Self. At that moment, I was drawn into the bosom of the 
Most Holy Trinity, and I was immersed in the love of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit. 
These moments are hard to describe. 

1671 At that moment, I prayed to the Lord for a certain person, and the Lord answered me, This 
soul is particularly dear to Me. I was immensely happy with this. The happiness of other 
souls fills me with a new joy, and when I see the higher gifts in some soul, my heart soars up 
to the Lord in a new hymn of adoration. 

1672 April 19, [1938]. During recreation, one of the sisters [Sister Cajetan] said, “Sister Faustina is 
doing so poorly that she can hardly walk, but may she die soon because she is going to be a 
saint.” Then one of the sister directresses [Sister Casimir 246 ] said, “That she is going to die, 
we know; but whether she is going to be a saint, that is another question.” There then began 
some malicious remarks (52) on this subject. I kept silent’; then I put in a word, but I saw that 
the conversation was getting worse, so again I fell silent. 

1673 At present, I am getting letters from sisters who are in other houses and who made their 
novitiate with me. 247 They often amuse me and make me laugh, as they usually go 
something like this: “Dear Sister Faustina, we are very sorry that you are so gravely ill; but 
we are very happy that, when the Lord Jesus takes you away, you will pray for us, for you 
have a lot of influence with the Lord.” One of the sisters put it this way: “When you die, 
Sister, please take me under your special care, for certainly you can do that for me” Another 
sister wrote as follows: “How I am waiting for the time when the Lord Jesus will take you, 
because I know what will happen then; and I greatly desire death for you.” I did want to ask 
her what she was thinking of, concerning my death, (53) but I mortified myself and answered, 
“The same thing will happen to me, a sinner, as happens to all sinners, if God’s mercy does 
not shield me.” 

1674 April 20, [1938]. Departure for Pradnik. I was very worried that I would be put in bed in a 
ward and be exposed to all sorts of things. If it were to be for only a week or two. . . . But it is 
for such a long time, two months or perhaps more. In the evening, I went in for a long talk 
with the lord Jesus. When I saw the Lord Jesus, I poured out my whole heart before Him, all 
my troubles, fears and apprehensions. Jesus lovingly listened to me and then said, Be at 
peace, My child, I am with you. Go in great peace. All is ready; I have ordered, in My 
own special way, a private room to be prepared for you. Reassured and overwhelmed 
with gratitude, I went to bed. 



366 




1675 



On the following day, Sister Felicia took me there. I left in great peace and a calm spirit. (54) 
When we arrived they told us there was a private room for Sister Faustina. When we entered 
the room we were surprised that everything had been prepared so beautifully: all was clean 
and neat, covered with tablecloths and bedecked with flowers; a pretty Easter Lamb had 
been place on the night table by the Sisters. 248 At once, three Sacred Fleart Sisters 249 who 
work at the sanatorium, my old acquaintances, came and greeted me warmly. Sister Felicia 
was surprised at all this. We bid a warm farewell to each other, and she left. When I was 
alone, with just the Lord Jesus and myself, I thanked Flim for this great grace. 

1676 Jesus said to me, Be at peace; I am with you. Tired, I fell asleep. In the evening, the sister 
[Sister David] who was to look after me came and said, “Tomorrow you will not receive the 
Lord Jesus, Sister, because you are very tired; later on, we shall see.” This hurt me very 
much, but I said with great calmness, “Very well,” and, resigning myself totally (55) to the will 
of the Lord, I tried to sleep. In the morning, I made my meditation and prepared for Holy 
Communion, even though I was not to receive the Lord Jesus. When my love and desire had 
reached a high degree, I saw at by bedside a Seraph, who gave me Holy Communion, 250 
saying these words: “Behold the Lord of Angels.” When I received the Lord, my spirit was 
drowned in the love of God and in amazement. This was repeated for thirteen days, 
although I was never sure he would bring me Holy Communion the next day. Yet, I put my 
trust completely in the goodness of God, but did not even dare to think that I would receive 
Holy Communion in this way on the following day. 

The Seraph was surrounded by a great light, the divinity and love of God being reflected in 
him. He wore a golden robe and, over it, a transparent surplice and a transparent stole. The 
chalice was crystal covered with a transparent veil. As soon as he gave me the Lord, he 
disappeared. 

1677 Once, when a certain doubt rose within me shortly before Holy Communion, (56) the Seraph 
with the Lord Jesus stood before me again. I asked the Lord Jesus, and not receiving an 
answer, I said to the seraph, “Could you perhaps hear my confession?” And he answered 
me, “No spirit in heaven has that power.” And that moment, the Sacred host rested on my 
lips. 

1 678 On Sunday [April 24, 1 938 251 ], the sister who had charge of the sick said to me, “Well, Sister, 
the priest will bring you the Lord Jesus today.” I answered, “Good,” and he brought Him. 

After some time, I received permission to leave my bed. So I went to Holy Mass and to 
spend time with the Lord, regularly. 

1679 After the first examination, the doctor [Silberg] found that my condition was grave. “We 
suspect, Sister, that you do have the illness about which you spoke to me But Almighty God 
can do all things.” 

When I entered my room, I steeped myself in prayer of thanksgiving for everything the Lord 
had been sending me throughout my whole life, surrendering myself totally to His most holy 
will. (57) A deep joy and peace flooded my soul. I felt a peace so great that, if death had 
come at that moment, I would not have said to it, “Wait, for I still have some matters to attend 
to.” No, I would have welcomed it with joy, because I am ready for the meeting with the Lord, 
not only today, but ever since the moment when I placed my complete trust in the Divine 
Mercy, resigning myself totally to His most holy will, full of mercy and compassion. I know 
what I am of myself 



367 




1680 Low Sunday. Today, I again offered myself to the Lord as a holocaust for sinners. My 
Jesus, if the end of my life is already approaching, I beg You most humbly, accept my death 
in union with You as a holocaust which I offer You today, while I still have full possession of 
my faculties and a fully conscious will, and this for a three fold purpose: 

Firstly: that the work of Your mercy may spread throughout the whole world and that the 
Feast of The Divine Mercy may be solemnly promulgated and celebrated. 

(58) Secondly: that sinners, especially dying sinners, may have recourse to Your mercy and 
experience the unspeakable effects of this mercy. 

Thirdly: that all the work of Your mercy may be realized according to Your wishes, and for a 
certain person who is in charge of this work 

Accept, most merciful Jesus, this, my inadequate sacrifice, which I offer to You today before 
heaven and earth. May Your Most Sacred Heart, so full of mercy, complete what is lacking in 
my offering, and offer it to Your Father for the conversion of sinners. I thirst after souls, O 
Christ. 

1681 + At that moment, the light of God penetrated my being, and I felt that I was God’s exclusive 
property: and I experienced the greatest spiritual freedom, of which I had had no previous 
idea. And at the same time, I saw the glory of The Divine Mercy and an infinite multitude of 
souls who were praising His goodness. My soul was completely drowned in God, and I 
heard the words, You are My well-beloved daughter. The vivid presence of God continued 
throughout the whole day. 

1682 (59) + May 1 , [1 938]. This evening, Jesus said to me, My daughter, do you need 
anything? I answered, “O my Love, when I have You I have everything.” And the Lord 
answered, If souls would put themselves completely in My care, I myself would 
undertake the task of sanctifying them, and I would lavish even greater graces on 
them. There are souls who thwart My efforts, but I have not given up on them; as 
often as they turn to Me, I hurry to their aid, shielding them with My Mercy, and I give 
them the first place in My compassionate Heart. 

1683 Write for the benefit of religious souls that it delights Me to come to their hearts in 
Holy Communion. But if there is anyone else in such a heart, I cannot bear it and 
quickly leave that heart, taking with Me all the gifts and graces I have prepared for the 
soul. And the soul does not even notice My going. After some time, inner emptiness 
and dissatisfaction will come to her attention. Oh, if only she would turn to Me then, 
(60) I would help her to cleanse her heart, and I would fulfill everything in her soul; but 
without her knowledge and consent, I cannot be the Master of her heart. 

1684 + I often communicate with persons who are dying and obtain the divine mercy for them. Oh, 
how great is the goodness of God, greater than we can understand. There are moments and 
there are mysteries of the divine mercy over which the heavens are astounded. Let our 
judgment of souls cease, for God’s mercy upon them is extraordinary. 

1685 (61 ) During Holy Hour today, I asked the Lord Jesus if He would deign to teach me about the 
spiritual life, Jesus answered me, My daughter, faithfully live up to the words which I 
speak to you. Do not value any external thing too highly, even if it were to seem very 



368 




precious to you. Let go of yourself, and abide with Me continually. Entrust everything 
to Me and do nothing on your own, and you will always have great freedom of spirit. 

No circumstances or events will ever be able to upset you. Set little store on what 
people say. Let everyone judge you as they like. Do not make excuses for yourself, it 
will do you no harm. Give away everything at the first sign of a demand, even if they 
were the most necessary things. Do not ask for anything without consulting Me. 

Allow them to take away even what is due you - respect, your good name - let your 
spirit rise above all that. And so, set free from everything, rest close to My Heart, not 
allowing your peace to be disturbed by anything. My pupil, consider (62) the words 
which I have spoken to you. 

1686 O my Love, my eternal Master, how good it is to obey; because when obedience infuses the 
soul, it brings with it power and strength to act. 

1687 Today I saw the Crucified Lord Jesus. Precious pearls and diamonds were pouring forth 
from the wound in His Heart. I saw how a multitude of souls was gathering these gifts, but 
there was one soul who was closest to His Heart and she, knowing the greatness of these 
gifts, was gathering them with liberality, not only for herself, but for others as well. The 
Savior said to me, Behold, the treasures of grace that flow down upon souls, but not all 
souls know how to take advantage of My generosity. 

1688 Today, the Lord said to me, My daughter, look into My Merciful Heart and reflect its 
compassion in your own heart and in your deeds, so that you, who proclaim My mercy 
to the world, may yourself be aflame with it. 

1689 (63) May 8, [1938]. Today, I saw two enormous pillars implanted in the ground; I had 
implanted one of them, and a certain person, S.M., the other. We had done so with unheard- 
of effort, much fatigue and difficulty. And when I had implanted the pillar, I myself wondered 
where such extraordinary strength had come from, And I recognized that I had not done this 
by my own strength, but with the power which came from above. These two pillars were 
close to each other, in the area of the image. And I saw the image, raised up very high and 
hanging from these two pillars. In an instant, there stood a large temple, supported both from 
within and from without, upon these two pillars. I saw a hand finishing the temple, but I did 
not see the person. There was a great multitude of people, inside and outside the temple, 
and the torrents issuing from the Compassionate Heart of Jesus were flowing down upon 
everyone. 

1690 After Holy Communion today, Jesus said, My daughter give Me souls. Know that it is 
your mission (64) to win souls for Me by prayer and sacrifice, and by encouraging 
them to trust in My mercy. 

1691 Oh, how greatly I desire the glory of Your mercy - for me, bitterness and suffering! When I 
see the glory of Your mercy, I am immeasurably happy. Let all disgrace, humiliation and 
abasement come down upon me, as long as the glory and praise of Your mercy resounds 
everywhere - that’s all that matters. 

The Creator and The Creature 

1692 I adore You, Lord and Creator, hidden in the Blessed Sacrament. I adore You for all the 
works of Your hands, that reveal to me so much wisdom, goodness and mercy, O Lord. You 



369 




have spread so much beauty over the earth, and it tells me about Your beauty, even though 
these beautiful things are but a faint reflection of You, Incomprehensible Beauty. And 
although You have hidden Yourself and concealed Your beauty, my eye, (65) enlightened by 
faith, reached You, and my soul recognizes its Creator, its Highest Good; and my heart is 
completely immersed in prayer of adoration. 

My Lord and Creator, Your goodness encourages me to converse with You. Your mercy 
abolishes the chasm which separates the Creator from the creature. To converse with You, 

O Lord, is the delight of my heart. In You I find everything that my heart could desire. Here 
Your light illumines my mind, enabling it to know you more and more deeply. Here streams 
of graces flow down upon my heart. Here my soul draws eternal life. O my Lord and 
Creator, You alone, beyond all these gifts, give Your own Self to me and unite Yourself 
intimately with Your miserable creature. Here, without searching for words, our hearts 
understand each other. Here, no once is able to interrupt our conversation. What I talk to 
You about, Jesus, is our secret, which creatures (66) shall not know and Angels dare not ask 
about. These are secret acts of forgiveness, known only to Jesus and me; this is the mystery 
of His mercy, which embraces each soul separately,. For this incomprehensible goodness of 
Yours, I adore You, O Lord and Creator, with all my heart and all my soul. And, although my 
worship is so little and poor, I am at peace because I know that You know it is sincere, 
however inadequate.... 

1693 As I was writing the above words, I saw the Lord Jesus leaning over me, and He asked, My 

daughter, what are you writing? I answered, “I am writing about You, Jesus, about Your 
being hidden in the Blessed Sacrament, about Your inconceivable love and mercy for 
people.” And Jesus said, Secretary of My most profound mystery, know that yours is an 
exclusive intimacy with Me. Your task is to write down everything that I make known 
to you about My mercy, for the benefit of those who by (67) reading these things will 
be comforted in their souls and will have the courage to approach Me. I therefore want 
you to devote all your free moments to writing. “But, O Lord, shall I always have a 
moment, at least a brief one, in which to write?” And Jesus answered. It is not for you to 
think about that. Only do as much as you can, and I will always arrange things so that 
you will easily be able to do what I ask of you 

1694 Today, I was visited by a certain lay person [probably Stanislava Kwietniewska] who has 
caused me a lot of sorrow and who has abused my goodness, telling many lies. At the first 
moment I saw her, the blood froze in my veins, because there stood before my eyes all that I 
had to suffer because of her, although with one word I could have freed myself of them all. 
And the thought came to me to tell her the truth, firmly and immediately. But at the same 
moment, the mercy (68) of God came before my eyes, and I resolved to act toward her as 
Jesus would have acted in my place. I started to talk to her gently, and when she expressed 
the wish to talk to me alone, I then, in a very delicate manner, made known to her clearly the 
sad condition of her soul. I saw that she was deeply moved, though she was trying to hide 
this from me. At that point, a third person came in, and so our heart-to-heart talk came to an 
end. She asked me for a glass of water and for two other things which I did willingly. 
However, had it not been for the grace of God, I would not have been able to act in such a 
way toward her. When they left, I thanked God for the grace which had supported me during 
that time. 



370 




1695 Then I heard the words, I am glad you behaved like My true daughter. Be always 
merciful as I am merciful. Love everyone out of love for Me, even your greatest 
enemies, so that My mercy may be fully reflected (69) in your heart. 

1696 O Christ, although much effort is required, all things can be done with Your grace. 

1697 I was feeling fairly well today, and I was glad that I would be able to make the Holy Hour. But 

when I began to make the Holy Hour, my physical sufferings intensified, so that I was not 
able to pray. When the Holy Hour was over, my sufferings came to an end, and I complained 
to the Lord that I had wanted so much to steep myself in His sorrowful Passion, but that my 
sufferings had not allowed me to do so. Then Jesus said to me, My daughter, know that if I 
allow you to feel and have a more profound knowledge of My sufferings, that is a 
grace from Me. But when your mind is dimmed and your sufferings are great, it is 
then that you take an active part in My Passion, and I am conforming you more fully to 
Myself. It is your task to submit yourself to My will at such times, more than at 
others 

1698 (70) I often attend upon the dying and through entreaties obtain for them trust in God’s 
mercy, and I implore God for an abundance of divine grace, which is always victorious. 

God’s mercy sometimes touches the sinner at the last moment in a wondrous and mysterious 
way. Outwardly, it seems as if everything were lost, but it is not so. The soul, illumined by a 
ray of God’s powerful final grace, turns to God in the last moment with such a power of love 
that, in an instant, it receives from God forgiveness of sin and punishment, while outwardly it 
shows no sign either of repentance or of contrition, because souls [at that stage] no longer 
react to external things. Oh, how beyond comprehension is God’s mercy! But - horror! - 
there are also souls who voluntarily and consciously reject and scorn this grace! Although a 
person is at the point of death, the merciful God gives the soul that interior vivid moment, so 
that if the soul is willing, it has the possibility of returning to God. But sometimes, the 
obduracy (71 ) in souls is so great that consciously they choose hell; they [thus] make useless 
all the prayers that other souls offer to God for them and even the efforts of God Himself 

+ 

1699 J. M. J. 



Solitude - my favorite moments, 

Solitude - but always with You, Jesus and Lord, 

Close to Your Heart, time passes pleasantly for me, 

And, close to Him, my soul finds its repose. 

When the heart is filled with You and overflowing with love, 

And the soul burns with pure fire, 

Then, amidst the utmost desolation, the soul will not experience loneliness, 
Because it rests on Your bosom. 

0 Solitude - moments of supreme companionship, 

Though I be abandoned by all creatures, 

1 immerse myself totally in the ocean of Your Godhead, 

And You listen sweetly to my confidences. 



371 




1700 



(72) This evening, the Lord asked me, Do you not have any desires in your heart? I 
answered, “I have one great desire, and it is to be united with You forever.” And the Lord 
answered me, That will happen soon. My dearest child, your every stirring is reflected 
in My Heart. My gaze rests kindly upon you before any other creature. 

1701 I asked the Lord today that He might deign to teach me about the interior life, because of 
myself I can neither understand nor conceive anything perfectly. The Lord answered me, I 

was your Teacher, I am and I will be; strive to make your heart like unto My humble 
and gentle Heart. Never claim your rights. Bear with great calm and patience 
everything that befalls you. Do not defend yourself when you are put to shame, 
though innocent. Let others triumph. Do not stop (73) being good when you notice 
that your goodness is being abused. I Myself will speak up for you when it is 
necessary. Be grateful for the smallest of My graces, because your gratitude compels 
Me to grant you new graces 

1702 Towards the end of the Way of the Cross which I was making, the Lord Jesus began to 
complain about the souls of religious and priests, about the lack of love in chosen souls. I 

will allow convents and churches to be destroyed. I answered, “Jesus, but there are so 
many souls praising You in convents.” The Lord answered, That praise wounds My Heart, 
because love has been banished from convents. Souls without love and without 
devotion, souls full of egoism and self-love, souls full of pride and arrogance, souls 
full of deceit and hypocrisy, lukewarm souls who have just enough warmth to keep 
them alive: My Heart cannot bear this. (74) All the graces that I pour out upon them 
flow off them as off the face of a rock. I cannot stand them, because they are neither 
good or bad. I called convents into being to sanctify the world through them. It is 
from them that a powerful flame of love and sacrifice should burst forth. And if they 
do not repent and become enkindled by their first love, I will deliver them over to the 
fate of this world 

How can they sit on the promised throne of judgment to judge the world, when their 
guilt is greater than the guilt of the world? There is neither penance nor atonement. O 
heart, which received Me in the morning and at noon are all ablaze with hatred against 
Me, hatred of all sorts! O heart especially chosen by Me, were you chosen for this, to 
give Me more pain? The great sins of the world are superficial wounds on My Heart, 
but the sins of a chosen soul pierce My Heart through and through 

1703 When I tried to intercede for them, I could find nothing with which (75) to excuse them and, 
being at the time unable to think of anything in their defense, my heart was seized with pain, 
and I wept bitterly. Then the Lord looked at me kindly and comforted me with these words: 

Do not cry. There are still a great number of souls who love Me very much, but My 
Heart desires to be loved by all and, because My love is great, that is why I warn and 
chastise them. 

1704 + Struggle with a certain temptation. There was a person who kept accosting me with 
flattering words, and since he knew when I went out to go to the chapel or to the veranda, he 
would bar my way. Since he did not dare approach me by himself, he found another person 
like himself, but neither of them dared approach. As I was on my way to the May devotions, 
they were already standing there where I had to pass. I hadn’t yet reached them when I 
heard enticing words, (76) directed at me. And the Lord permitted me to know the intentions 



372 




of their hearts, which were not good. I felt they would block my way after the service, and 
that I would have to talk to them, for up to that time I hadn’t said a word, 

When I left the chapel, they were there, armed and waiting for me to pass. This time, I was 
overcome with fear. Then Jesus stood by me and said, Do not fear. I am with you. Then I 
felt an extraordinary strength in my soul, which I cannot describe and, being a few steps from 
them, I said boldly and loudly, “Praised be Jesus Christ.” And they, stepping aside, 
responded, “For ever and ever, Amen.” As if struck by lightning, they bowed their heads, not 
even daring to look at me. After I had passed, I could hear some malicious comments. Ever 
since that time, when this person sees me, he runs away in order not to meet me and I, 
thanks to the Lord, have been left in peace 

1705 (77) After Holy Mass, I went out to the garden to make my meditation, since there were not 
yet any patients in the garden at this time, and so I felt at ease. As I was meditating on the 
blessings of God, my heart was burning with a love so strong that it seemed my breast would 
burst. Suddenly Jesus stood before me and said, What are you doing here so early? I 
answered, “I am thinking of You, of Your mercy and Your goodness toward us. And You, 
Jesus what are You doing here?” I have come out to meet you, to lavish new graces on 
you. I am looking for souls who would like to receive My grace. 

1706 During Vespers today, the Lord gave me to know how very pleased He is with a pure and 

free heart. I felt that it is God’s delight to look into such a heart.... But such hearts are 
knightly hearts; their life is a constant battle 

1707 (78) + On my way to the veranda, I went into the chapel for a moment. My heart was 
plunged in profound adoration, praising God’s incomprehensible goodness and His mercy. 
Then I heard these words in my soul: I am and will be for you such as you praise Me for 
being. You shall experience My goodness, already in this life and then, to the full, in 
the life to come. 

1708 O Christ, I am most delighted when I see that You are loved, and that Your praise and glory 
resound, especially the praise of Your mercy. O Christ, to the last moment of my life, I will 
not stop glorifying Your goodness and mercy. With every drop of my blood, with every beat 
of my heart, I glorify Your mercy. I long to be entirely transformed into a hymn of Your glory. 
When I find myself on my deathbed, may the last beat of my heart be a loving hymn in praise 
of Your unfathomable mercy. 

1709 (79) + Today the Lord said to me, You shall make a three-day retreat before the coming 
of the Holy Spirit. I Myself will direct you. You shall not follow any of the rules 
required for retreats or use any books for meditation. Your task is to listen attentively 
to My words. For spiritual reading you shall read one chapter from the Gospel of St. 
John. 

[Here occurs a space of a half page 
in the original Notebook] 

1710 (80) May 26, [1938 - Feast of the Ascension], Today I accompanied the Lord Jesus as He 
ascended into heaven. It was about noon. I was overcome by a great longing for God. It is 
a strange thing, the more I felt God’s presence, the more ardently I desired Him. Then I saw 
myself in the midst of a huge crowd of disciples and apostles, together with the Mother of 



373 




God. Jesus was telling them. .. Go out into the whole world and teach in My name. He 

stretched out His hands and blessed them and disappeared in a cloud. I saw the longing of 
Our Lady. Her soul yearned for Jesus, with the whole force of Her love. But She was so 
peaceful and so united to the will of God that there was not a stir in Her heart but for what 
God wanted. 

1711 When I was left alone with the Blessed Virgin, She instructed me concerning the interior life. 
She said, The soul’s true greatness is in loving God and in humbling oneself in His presence, 
completely forgetting oneself and believing oneself to be nothing, because the Lord is great, 
but He is well-pleased only with the humble, He always opposes the proud. 

1712 (81) A certain person whom I have mentioned before visited me again. When I saw that she 

was beginning to get entangled in her own lies, I let he know that I knew she was lying. She 
became very embarrassed and stopped speaking. Then I spoke to her about the great 
judgments of God, and I also remarked that she was leading innocent souls astray and along 
dangerous roads. I uncovered before her everything that was in her heart. Since I had to 
overcome my own feelings in order to talk to her, to prove to Jesus that I love my enemies, I 
gave her my afternoon snack. She went away enlightened in soul, but action is still far 
away 

1713 There are times when the Lord Jesus fulfills my smallest wishes. Today I remarked that I 
would like to see some ears of grain, but that they cannot be seen from our sanatorium. 
However, one of the patients heard this remark and, on the following day, he went out into 
the field and brought me several beautiful (82) ears of grain. My room is always adorned 
with fresh flowers, but my spirit finds satisfaction in nothing. More and more, I year for God. 

1714 Today I interceded earnestly with the Lord Jesus for our house, that He might deign to take 
away the cross which has touched our convent. 252 The Lord answered me, Your prayers 
are accepted for other intentions. I cannot take away this cross until they recognize 
its meaning. Nevertheless, I did not stop praying. 

1715 A strong temptation. The Lord gave me to know how pleasing a pure heart is to Him, and 
thereby I was given a deeper knowledge of my own misery. When I began to prepare for 
confession, strong temptations against confessors assaulted me. I did not see Satan, but I 
could sense him, his terrible anger. - “Yes, he’s an ordinary man.” - “Not ordinary, because 
he has the power of God.” - Yes, (83) it is not difficult for me to accuse myself of my sins. 

But to uncover the most secret depths of my heart, to give an account of the action of God’s 
grace, to speak about God’s every demand, about all that goes on between God and 
myself.... To tell that to a man is beyond my strength. I felt I was fighting against the powers 
and I cried out: “O Christ, You and the priest are one; I will approach confession as if I were 
approaching, not a man, but You.” When I entered the confessional, I began by disclosing 
my difficulties. The priest replied that the best thing I could have done was to disclose these 
temptations from the outset. However, after the confession, they took flight, and my soul is 
enjoying peace. 

1716 Once during recreation, one of the sister directresses said that the lay sisters were without 
feelings, and so could be treated stiffly. I was sorry to see that the sister directresses know 
so little about the lay sisters and judge them only from appearances. 



374 




1717 



(84) Today, I was talking with the Lord, and He said to me, There are souls with whom I 
can do nothing. They are souls that are continuously observing others, but know 
nothing of what is going on within their own selves. They talk about others 
continually, even during times of grand silence, which is reserved for speaking only 
with Me. Poor souls, they do not hear My words; their interior remains empty. They 
do not look for Me within their own hearts, but in idle talk, where I am never to be 
found. They sense their emptiness, but they do not recognize their own guilt, while 
souls in whom I reign completely are a constant source of remorse to them. Instead of 
correcting themselves, their hearts swell with envy, and if they do not come to their 
senses, they plunge in even deeper. A heart, which thus far is envious, now begins to 
be filled with hate. And they are already at the edge of the precipice. They are jealous 
of my gifts in other souls, but they themselves are unable and unwilling to accept 
them. 

1718 (85) To stay at Your feet, O hidden God, 

Is the delight and paradise of my soul. 

Here, You give me to know You, O incomprehensible One, 

And You speak to me sweetly: Give Me, give Me your heart. 

Silent conversation, alone with You, 

Is to experience what heavenly beings enjoy, 

And to say to God, “I will, I will give You my heart, O Lord,” 

While You, O great and incomprehensible One, accept it graciously. 

Love and sweetness are my soul’s life, 

And Your unceasing presence in my soul. 

I live on earth in constant rapture, 

And like a Seraph I repeat, “Hosanna!” 

O You Who are hidden, body, soul and divinity, 

Linder the fragile form of bread, 

You are my life from Whom springs an abundance of graces; 

And, for me, You surpass the delights of heaven. 

When you unite Yourself with me in Communion, O God, 

I then feel my unspeakable greatness, 

(86) A greatness which flows from You, O Lord, I humbly confess, 

And despite my misery, with Your help, I can become a saint. 

1719 + During Holy Mass, I came to know that a certain priest does not effect much in souls 
because he thinks about himself and so is alone. God’s grace takes flight; he relies on trifling 
external things, which have no importance in the eyes of God; and, being proud, he fritters 
away his time, wearing himself out to no purpose. 

1720 There are moments when Jesus gives me knowledge within my soul, and then everything 
that exists on earth is at my service: friends, enemies, success, adversity.... All things, 
willing or not, must serve me. I do not think of them at all; I strive to be faithful to God and to 
love Him to the point of complete forgetfulness of self. And He Himself looks after me and 
fights against my enemies. 



375 




1721 (87) After Holy Communion, when I had welcomed Jesus into my heart, I said to Him, “My 
Love, reign in the most secret recesses of my heart, there where my most secret thoughts 
are conceived, where You alone have free access, in this deepest sanctuary where human 
thought cannot penetrate. May You alone dwell there, and may everything I do exteriorly 
take its origin in You. I ardently desire, and I am striving with all the strength of my soul, to 
make You, Lord, feel at home in this sanctuary.” 

1722 I heard these words: If you did not tie My hands, I would send down many punishments 
upon the earth. My daughter, your look disarms My anger. Although your lips are 
silent, you call out to Me so mightily that all heaven is moved. I cannot escape from 
your requests, because you pursue Me, not from afar but within your own heart. 

1723 (88) When the soul of a certain young lady came to me one night, she made me aware of 
her presence, and made known to me that she needed my prayer. I prayed for a while, but 
her spirit did not leave me. Then I thought to myself, “If you are a good spirit, leave me in 
peace, and the indulgences I will gain tomorrow will be for you.” At that moment, the spirit 
left my room, and I recognized that she was in purgatory. 

1724 Today I felt the Lord’s Passion in my body more than at any other time. I felt this was for the 
sake of a dying soul. 

1725 Today, the Lord has been teaching me, once again, how I am to approach the Sacrament of 
Penance: My daughter, just as you prepare in My presence, so also you make your 
confession before Me. The person of the priest is, for Me, only a screen. Never 
analyze what sort of a (89) priest it is that I am making use of; open your soul in 
confession as you would to Me, and I will fill it with My light. 

1726 Christ and Lord, You are leading me over such precipices that, when I look at them, I am 
filled with fright, but at the same time I am at peace as I nestle close to Your Heart. Close to 
Your Heart, I fear nothing. In these dangerous moments, I act like a little child, carried in its 
mother’s arms; when it sees something which menaces it, it clasps its mother’s neck more 
firmly and feels secure. 

1727 + I often see snares laid for me by souls who should not do so. I do not defend myself, but 
entrust myself all the more to God, who sees within me. And I see how these souls become 
entangled in their own snares. O God, how just and good You are! 

1728 (90) Write: I am Thrice Holy, and detest the smallest sin. I cannot love a soul which is 
stained with sin; but when it repents, there is no limit to My generosity toward it. My 
mercy embraces and justifies it. With My mercy, I pursue sinners along all their paths, 
and My Heart rejoices when they return to Me. I forget the bitterness with which they 
fed My Heart and rejoice at their return. 

Tell sinners that no one shall escape My Hand; if they run away from My merciful 
Heart, they will fall into My Just Hands. Tell sinners that I am always waiting for them, 
that I listen intently to the beating of their heart.... When will it beat for Me? Write, that 
I am speaking to them through their remorse of conscience, through their failures and 
sufferings, through thunderstorms, through the voice of the Church. And if they bring 
all My graces to naught, I begin to be angry (91) with them, leaving them alone and 
giving them what they want. 



376 




1729 O my Jesus, You alone know of my efforts. I seem to be a bit better, but better only to the 
point that I can go out on the veranda instead of lying in bed. I see and am fully aware of 
what is happening to me. Despite the diligent care of my superiors and the efforts of the 
doctors, my health is fading and running out. But I rejoice greatly at Your call, my God, my 
Love, because I know that my mission will begin at the moment of my death. Oh, how much 
I desire to be set free from the bonds of this body. O my Jesus, You know that, in all my 
desires, I always want to see Your will. Of myself, I would not want to die one minute sooner, 
or to live one minute longer, or to suffer less, (92) or to suffer more, but I only want to do 
Your holy will. Although I have great enthusiasm, and the desires burning in my heart are 
immense, they are never above Your will. 

1730 I fly to Your mercy, Compassionate God, who alone are good. Although my misery is great, 
and my offenses are many, I trust in Your mercy, because You are the God of mercy; and, 
from time immemorial, it has never been heard of, nor do heaven or earth remember, that a 
soul trusting in Your mercy has been disappointed. 

1731 (93) Today I was awakened by a great storm. The wind was raging, and it was raining in 
torrents, thunderbolts striking again and again. I began to pray that the storm would do no 
harm, when I heard the words: Say the chaplet I have taught you, and the storm will 
cease. I began immediately to say the chaplet and hadn’t even finished it when the storm 
suddenly ceased, and I heard the words: Through the chaplet you will obtain everything, 
if what you ask for is compatible with My will. 

1732 As I was praying for Poland, I heard the words: I bear a special love for Poland, and if she 

will be obedient to My will, I will exalt her in might and holiness. From her will come 
forth the spark that will prepare the world for My final coming. 

1733 (94) + Welcome, hidden Love, life of my soul! I welcome You, Jesus, under these 
insignificant forms of bread. Welcome, sweetest Mercy, who pour Yourself out for souls. 
Welcome, Infinite Goodness, who pour out everywhere torrents of Your graces. Welcome, o 
veiled Brightness, the light of souls. Welcome, O Fount of inexhaustible mercy, O purest 
Spring from which life and holiness gush forth for us. Welcome, Delight of pure souls. 
Welcome, only Hope of sinful souls. 

1734 O my Jesus, You know that there are times when I have neither lofty thoughts nor a soaring 
spirit. I bear with myself patiently and admit that that is just what I am, because all that is 
beautiful is a grace from God. And so I humble myself profoundly and cry out for Your help; 
and the grace of visitation is not slow in coming to the humble heart. 

1 735 (95) O virgin, lovely flower, 

You will not remain much longer in this world. 

Oh, how beautiful your loveliness, 

My pure bride! 

No numbers can count you. 

How dear is your virginal flower! 

Your brightness is in no way dimmed; 

It is brave, strong, invincible. 



377 




The very blaze of the noon-day sun 

Dims, and darkens in the presence of a virgin heart. 

I see nothing greater than virginity. 

It is a flower taken from the Divine Heart. 

O gentle virgin, fragrant rose, 

Although there are many crosses on earth, 

No eye has seen, nor has it entered into the mind of man 
What awaits a virgin in heaven. 

O virgin, snow-white lily, 

You live wholly for Jesus alone 

(96) And in the pure chalice of your heart 

Is a pleasing dwelling place for God Himself. 

O virgin, no one will sing your hymn. 

In your song lies hidden the love of God. 

Even the Angels do not comprehend 
What the virgins sing to God. 

O virgin, your flower of paradise 
Eclipses all the splendors of this world. 

And although the world cannot comprehend you, 

It bows humbly before you. 

Although the virgin’s path is strewn with thorns, 

And her life bristles with many a cross, 

Who is as brave as she? 

Nothing will break her; she is invincible. 

O virgin, earthly angel, 

Your greatness is renowned throughout the Church. 

You stand guard before the tabernacle 
And, like a Seraph, become all love. 

1736 (97) Once, when I was on the veranda, I saw that a certain person was being troubled by 
strong temptations concerning Holy Confession, doubting its secrecy. Although I knew the 
condition of that soul, I myself did not start the conversation. When we were alone, she 
opened her heart to me and told me everything. After talking for a short while, she said to 
me, “I am at peace now; my soul has received much light.” 

1737 Today, Jesus made known to me that I should speak little with a certain religious sister. A 
special grace of God sustained me during the conversation, which would not otherwise have 
been for God’s glory. 

1738 The Lord said to me, Enter into purgatory often, because they need you there. O my 

Jesus, I understand the meaning of these words which You are speaking to me, but first let 
me enter the treasury (98) of Your mercy. 



378 




1739 Write, My daughter, that I am mercy itself for the contrite soul. A soul’s greatest 
wretchedness does not enkindle Me with wrath; but rather, My Heart is moved towards 
it with great mercy. 

1740 O my Jesus, give me strength to endure suffering so that I may not make a wry face when I 
drink the cup of bitterness. Help me Yourself to make my sacrifice pleasing to You. May it 
not be tainted by my self-love, even though it extend over many years. May purity of 
intention make it pleasing to You, fresh and full of life. This life of mine is a ceaseless 
struggle, a constant effort to do Your holy will; but may everything that is in me, both my 
misery and my strength, give praise to You, O Lord. 

(99) The Infinite Goodness of God in the 
Creation of the Angels. 

1741 O God, who are happiness in Your very self and have no need of creatures to make You 

happy, because of Yourself You are the fullness of love; yet, out of Your fathomless mercy 
You call creatures into being and grant them a share in Your eternal happiness and in Your 
life, that divine indwelling life which You live, One God in Three Persons. In Your 
unfathomable mercy, You have created angelic spirits and admitted them to Your love and to 
Your divine intimacy. You have made them capable of eternal love. Although You bestowed 
on them so generously, O Lord, the splendor of love and beauty, Your fullness was not 
diminished in the least, O God, nor have their love and beauty completed You, because You 
are everything in Yourself. And if You have allowed them to participate in Your happiness 
and to exist and to love You, that is only due to the abyss of Your mercy. This is Your 
unfathomable goodness, for which they glorify You without end, (1 00) humbling themselves 
at the feet of Your majesty as they chant their eternal hymn: Holy, Holy, Holy 

1742 Be praised, merciful God, One God in the Holy Trinity, 

Unfathomable, infinite, incomprehensible, 

Immersing themselves in You, their minds cannot comprehend You, 

So they repeat without end their eternal: Holy. 

Be glorified, O merciful Creator of ours, O Lord, 

Omnipotent, but full of compassion, inconceivable. 

To love You is the mission of our existence, 

Singing our eternal hymn: Holy 

Be blessed, merciful God, Eternal Love. 

You are above the heavens, the sapphires, the firmaments. 

Thus the host of pure spirits glorifies You, 

With its eternal hymn: Thrice Holy. 

And, gazing upon You, face to face, O God, 

I see that You could have called other creatures before them. 

Therefore they humble themselves before You in great humility, 

For well they see that this grace comes solely from Your mercy. 

(1 01 ) One of the most beautiful spirits would not recognize Your mercy, 

And, blinded by his pride, he drew others after him. 

Angel of great beauty, he became Satan 



379 




And was cast down in one moment from heaven’s heights into hell. 

Then the faithful spirits cried, “Glory to God’s mercy!” 

And they stood firm in spite of the fiery test. 

Glory to Jesus, the Christ abased, 

Glory to His Mother, the humble and pure Virgin. 

After this battle, the pure spirits plunged into the ocean of Divinity; 

Contemplating and praising the depths of His mercy, 

They drown in His mercy and manifold light, 

Possessing in knowledge the Trinity of persons, the Oneness of Godhead. 

1743 + God’s Infinite Goodness in Creating Mankind. 

God, who in Your mercy have deigned to call man from nothingness into being, generously 
have You bestowed upon him nature and grace. But that seemed too little for Your infinite 
goodness. In Your mercy, O Lord, You have given us (102) everlasting life. You admit us to 
Your everlasting happiness and grant us to share in Your interior life. And You do this solely 
out of Your mercy. You bestow on us the gift of Your grace, only because You are g2ood 
and full of love. You had no need of us at all to be happy, but You, O Lord, want to share 
Your own happiness with us. But man did not stand the test. You could have punished him, 
like the angels, with eternal rejection, but here Your mercy appeared, and the very depths of 
Your being were moved with great compassion, and You promised to restore our salvation. 

It is an incomprehensible abyss of Your compassion that You did not punish us as we 
deserved. May Your mercy be glorified, O lord; we will praise it for endless ages. And the 
angels were amazed at the greatness of the mercy which You have shown for mankind.... 

1744 May You be adored, O merciful God of ours, 

O All-powerful Lord and Creator. 

In deepest humility, we give You praise, 

Plunging ourselves into the ocean of your Godhead. 

(1 03) But man did not persevere in the hour of trial. 

At the instigation of the evil one, he became unfaithful to You. 

He lost Your grace and gifts; only misery was left him, 

And tears, suffering, sorrow and bitterness, until he would rest in the grave. 

But you, O merciful God, did not let humanity perish, 

And gave it the promise of a Redeemer. 

You did not let us despair, despite our grave offenses, 

And You sent Your prophets to Israel. 

Still, day and night, mankind cries out to You, 

From the abyss of misery, sin and all pain. 

Hear the moaning and the tears, You who reign in heaven, 

God of great mercy, God of compassion. 



380 




Man erred, but he cannot ask pardon, 

Because a gaping chasm has appeared between God and man. 

With the voice of his misery, he cries out, “Mercy!” 

But Yahweh is silent.... And century after century passes on. 

But the longing of all humankind grows deeper. 

A longing for Him who has been promised. 

(1 04) Come, Lamb of God, take away our vile sins, 

Come, illumine our darkness like a ray of light. 

Humanity calls out to You unceasingly, O Lord of lords, 

Calls out to Your unfathomable mercy, to Your compassion. 

O great Yahweh, grant that we may make atonement, 

Remember Your goodness, and forgive us our sins. 

+ The Infinite Goodness of God 
in Sending Us His Only-Begotten Son. 

1 745 God, You did not destroy man after his fall, but in Your mercy You forgave him, You forgave 
in a divine way; that is, not only have You absolved him from guilt, but You have bestowed 
upon him every grace. Mercy has moved You to deign to descend among us and lift us up 
from our misery. God will descend to earth; the Immortal Lord of lords will abase Himself. 
But where will You descend, Lord; will it be to the temple of Solomon? Or will You have a 
new tabernacle built for Yourself? Where do You intend to come down? O Lord, what kind 
of tabernacle shall we prepare for You, (105) since the whole earth is Your footstool? 

You have indeed prepared a tabernacle for Yourself: the Blessed Virgin. Her Immaculate 
Womb is Your dwelling place, and the inconceivable miracle of Your mercy takes place, O 
Lord. The Word becomes flesh; God dwells among us, the Word of God, Mercy Incarnate. 
By Your descent, You have lifted us up to Your divinity. Such is the excess of Your love, the 
abyss of Your mercy. Heaven is amazed at the superabundance of Your love. No one fears 
to approach You now. You are the God of mercy. You have compassion on misery. You 
are our God, and we are your people. You are our Father, and we are Your children by 
grace. Praise be to Your mercy, that You have deigned to descend among us. 

1746 Be adored, O God of mercy, 

Because You have deigned to descend from heaven to earth. 

Most humbly we adore You 

For Your having vouchsafed to exalt all mankind. 

(106 Unfathomable and incomprehensible in Your mercy, 

For love of us You take on flesh 

From the immaculate Virgin, ever untouched by sin, 

Because You have willed it so from all ages. 

The Blessed Virgin, that Snow-White Lily, 

Is first to praise the omnipotence of Your mercy. 

Her pure heart opens with love for the coming of the Word; 

She believes the words of God’s messenger and is confirmed in trust. 



381 




Heaven is astounded that God has become man, 

That there is on earth a heart worthy of God Himself. 

Why is it that You do not unite Yourself with a Seraph, but with a sinner, O Lord? 

Oh, because, despite the purity of the virginal womb, 
this is a mystery of Your mercy. 

O mystery of God’s mercy, O God of compassion, 

That You have deigned to leave the heavenly throne 
And to stoop down to our misery, to human weakness, 

For it is not the angels, but man who needs mercy. 

To give worthy praise to the Lord’s mercy, 

We unite ourselves with Your Immaculate Mother, 

(107) For then our hymn will be more pleasing to You, 

Because She is chosen from among men and angels. 

Through Her, as through a pure crystal, 

Your mercy was passed on to us. 

Through Her, man became pleasing to God; 

Through Her, streams of grace flowed down upon us. 

+ God’s Infinite Goodness in Redeeming Man. 

1747 God, You could have saved thousand of worlds with one word; a single sigh from Jesus would 
have satisfied Your justice. But You Yourself, Jesus, purely out of love for us, underwent such 
a terrible Passion. Your Father’s justice would have been propitiated with a single sigh from 
You, and all Your self-abasement is solely the work of Your mercy and Your inconceivable 
love. On leaving the earth, O Lord, You wanted to stay with us, and so You left us Yourself in 
the Sacrament of the Altar, and You opened wide Your mercy to us. There is no misery that 

(108) could exhaust You; You have called us all to this fountain of love, to this spring of God’s 
compassion. Here is the tabernacle of Your mercy, here is the remedy for all our ills. To You, 
O living spring of mercy, all souls are drawn; some like deer, thirsting for Your love, others to 
wash the wound of their sins, and still others, exhausted by life, to draw strength. At the 
moment of Your death on the Cross, You bestowed upon us eternal life; allowing Your most 
holy side to be opened, You opened an inexhaustible spring of mercy for us, giving us Your 
dearest possession, the Blood and Water from Your Heart. Such is the omnipotence of Your 
mercy. From it all grace flows to us. 

1748 Be adored, O God, in the work of Your mercy, 

Be blessed by all faithful hearts 

On whom Your gaze rests, 

In whom dwells Your immortal life. 

(109) O my Jesus, have mercy, sorrowful was Your life on this earth, 

And in terrible torment Your work came to an end, 

Hanging stretched out on the wood of the Cross, 

And all this for the love of our souls. 



382 




1749 



1750 



In Your inconceivable love, You allowed Your most holy side to be opened, 

And streams of Blood and Water gushed forth from Your Heart. 

Here is the living fountain of Your mercy, 

Here souls receive consolation and refreshment. 

In the Blessed Sacrament, You left us Your mercy; 

Your love deigned to arrange it so, 

That, going through life, suffering and toil, 

I might never doubt of Your goodness and mercy. 

For even if the whole world’s miseries weighed on my soul, 

We must not doubt for even a moment, 

But have trust in the power of God’s mercy, 

Because, with graciousness, God receives a contrite soul. 

O unspeakable mercy of our Lord, 

Source of compassion and all sweetness, 

(1 1 0) T rust, trust, O soul, though you are stained by sin, 

For when you approach God, you will not taste bitterness. 

Because He is a living fire of great love, 

When we approach Him with sincerity, 

Our miseries, sins and evil deeds vanish; 

He will settle our debts when we surrender ourselves to Him. 

+ God’s Infinite Goodness in Adorning 
the Whole World with Beauty 
in Order to Make Man’s Stay on Earth Pleasant. 

O God, how generously Your mercy is spread everywhere, and You have done all this for man. 
Oh, how much You must love him, since Your love is so active on his behalf. O my Creator 
and Lord, I see on all sides the trace of Your hand and the seal of Your mercy, which 
embraces all created things. O my most compassionate Creator, I want to give You worship 
on behalf of all creatures and all inanimate (111) creation; I call on the whole universe to glorify 
Your mercy. Oh, how great is Your goodness, O God! 

Be adored, O our Creator and Lord. 

O universe, humbly glorify your God; 

Thank your Creator to the best of your powers 
And praise God’s incomprehensible mercy. 

Come, O earth, in all your fine greenery; 

Come, you too, O fathomless sea. 

Let your gratitude become a loving song 
And sing the greatness of God’s mercy. 

Come, beautiful, radiant sun. 

Come, bright dawn which precedes it. 



383 




Join in one hymn, and let your clear voices 
Sing in one accord God’s great mercy. 

Come, hills and valleys, sighing woods and thickets, 

Come, lovely flowers of morningtide; 

Let your unique scent 
Adore and glorify God’s mercy. 

(1 1 2) Come, all you lovely things of earth, 

Which man does not cease to wonder at. 

Come, adore God in your harmony, 

Glorifying God’s inconceivable mercy. 

Come, indelible beauty of all the earth, 

And, with great humility, adore your Creator, 

For all things are locked in His mercy, 

With one mighty voice all things cry out; how great is the mercy of God. 

But above all these beauties, 

A more pleasing praise to God 

Is a soul innocent and filled with childlike trust, 

Which, through grace, is closely bound to Him. 

1751 + O Jesus, concealed in the Blessed Sacrament of the Altar, my only love and mercy, I 
commend to You all the needs of my body and soul. You can help me, because You are 
Mercy itself. In You lies all my hope. 

(1 1 3) [In the original there follows a complete blank page.] 

+ 

(1 1 4) J. M. J. Cracow-Pradnik, June 2, 1 938 

Three-day Retreat. 

1752 Under the direction of Master Jesus, who Himself commanded me to make this retreat, and 
who selected the days on which I was to make it; namely, the three days preceding Pentecost 
and who, Himself, conducted this retreat. 

However, I asked my confessor [probably Father Andrasz] whether I could make such a 
retreat, and I received his permission. I also asked Mother Superior [Irene] and received her 
permission too. I had resolved that I would not make the retreat unless I obtained the 
permission of the Superiors. I began a novena to the Holy Spirit, and waited for Mother 
Superior’s answer. 

(115) I should be beginning the retreat today, but I have not yet received new of Mother 
Superior’s decision. 

When I went to Church for the evening devotions, I saw the Lord Jesus during the litany. My 
daughter, we are beginning the retreat. I answered, “Jesus, my dearest Master, I ask Your 
forgiveness, but I cannot make the retreat, because I have received no news as to whether 



384 




Mother Superior allows it or not.” Do not worry, My daughter, the Superior has given her 
permission. You will learn of it tomorrow morning. But we are to start the retreat today. 

And indeed, Mother Superior had telephoned that evening to the sister who is looking after me 
during my illness [Sister David], asking her to tell me that I was allowed to make the retreat, 
but the sister had forgotten to tell me. It was only next morning that she told me, (1 1 6) and she 
was very apologetic that she had not told me the day before. I answered her, “Please do not 
worry. I have already started my retreat, according to the Superior’s wish.” 

+ The First Day. 

1753 In the evening, Jesus gave me the subject for meditation. At the first moment, my heart was 
filled with fear and joy. Then I pressed myself close to His Heart, and the fear vanished; only 
joy remained. I felt entirely like a child of God, and the Lord said to me, Fear nothing. What 
has been forbidden to others has been given to you. The graces that are not given to 
other souls to discern, not even from a distance, nourish you every day, like the daily 
bread. 

1754 Consider, My daughter, Who it is to whom your heart is so closely united by the vows. 
Before I made the world, I loved you with the love your heart is experiencing today and, 
throughout the centuries, (117) My love will never change. 

1755 Application. At the very thought of Him to whom my heart is wedded, my soul entered into 
profound recollection, and the hour passed like a minute. In this state of recollection, I came to 
know the attributes of God. Burning with an inner fire of love, I went out to the garden to cool 
off; when I looked up at the heavens, a new flame of love flooded my heart. 

1756 Then I heard the words: My daughter, have you exhausted the subject I gave you? If so, 
I’ll give you a new one. I answered, “O Infinite Majesty, eternity will not be enough for me to 

come to know You But my love for You has become more intense. As a token of gratitude, 

I lay my heart at Your feet, like a rosebud. May its fragrance delight Your Divine Heart, now 
and for eternity.... What a paradise it is for a soul when the heart knows itself to be so loved by 
God ” 

1757 (118) Today, you will read chapter fifteen of the Gospel of Saint John. I want you to read 
it very slowly. 

Second Meditation. 

1758 My daughter, consider the life of God which is found in the Church for the salvation and 
the sanctification of your soul. Consider the use that you make of these treasures of 
grace, of these efforts of My love. 

1759 Application: O most compassionate Jesus, I have not always known how to profit from these 
priceless gifts, because I have paid too little attention to the gift itself and too much to the 
vessel in which You were giving me Your gifts. My most sweet Master, it will be different from 
now on. I will put Your gifts to the best use of which my soul is capable. Living faith will 
support me. Whatever the form might be, under which You send me Your grace, I will accept it 
as coming directly from You, without considering the vessel in (119) which You send it. If it will 



385 




not always be within my power to accept it with joy, I will always accept it with submission to 
Your holy will. 



Conference on Spiritual Warfare. 

1760 My daughter, I want to teach you about spiritual warfare. Never trust in yourself, but 
abandon yourself totally to My will. In desolation, darkness and various doubts, have 
recourse to Me and to your spiritual director. He will always answer you in My name. 

Do not bargain with any temptation; lock yourself immediately in My Heart and, at the 
first opportunity, reveal the temptation to the confessor. Put your self-love in the last 
place, so that it does not taint your deeds. Bear with yourself with great patience. Do 
not neglect interior mortifications. Always justify to yourself the opinions of your 
superiors and of your confessor. Shun murmurers like a plague. (120) Let all act as 
they like; you are to act as I want you to. 

Observe the rule as faithfully as you can. If someone causes you trouble, think what 
good you can do for the person who caused you to suffer. Do not pour out your 
feelings. Be silent when you are rebuked. Do not ask everyone’s opinion, but only the 
opinion of your confessor; be as frank and simple as a child with him. Do not become 
discouraged by ingratitude. Do not examine with curiosity the roads down which I lead 
you. When boredom and discouragement beat against your heart, run away from 
yourself and hide in My heart. Do not fear struggle; courage itself often intimidates 
temptations, and they dare not attack us. 

Always fight with the deep conviction that I am with you. Do not be guided by feeling, 
because it is not always under your control; but all merit lies in the will. Always depend 
upon your superiors, even in the smallest things. I will not delude you with prospects 
of peace (121) and consolations; on the contrary, prepare for great battles. Know that 
you are now on a great stage where all heaven and earth are watching you. Fight like a 
knight, so that I can reward you. Do not be unduly fearful, because you are not alone. 

Second Day. 

1761 My daughter, today consider My Sorrowful Passion in all its immensity. Consider it as if 
it had been undertaken for your sake alone. 

1762 Application: When I began to immerse myself in the Divine Passion, the great worth of the 
human soul and the great evil of sin were revealed to me. I understood that I did not know 
how to suffer. In order to gain merit from my suffering, I will unite myself more closely, in 
suffering, to the Passion of the Lord Jesus, asking of Him grace for dying souls, so that the 
mercy of God may embrace them in this grave moment. 

(122) Second Meditation 

1763 My daughter, consider the rule and the vows which you have offered to Me. You know 
how highly I value them; all the graces that I have for the souls of religious are 
connected with the rule and the vows. 



386 




1764 Application: O my Jesus, I feel guilty of many imperfections on this score but, by Your grace I 
do not recall any conscious and voluntary transgression of the rule or the religious vows. 
Continue to guard me, O my good Jesus, for of myself I am weak. 

1765 Today, My daughter, for your reading you shall take chapter nineteen of Saint John’s 

Gospel, and read it, not only with your lips, but with your heart 

1766 During this reading, my soul was filled with deep repentance. I saw all the ingratitude of 
creatures toward their Creator and Lord; I asked God to protect me from spiritual blindness. 

Conference on Sacrifice and Prayer. 

1767 (123) My daughter, I want to instruct you on how you are to rescue souls through 
sacrifice and prayer. You will save more souls through prayer and suffering than will a 
missionary through his teachings and sermons alone. I want to see you as a sacrifice 
of living love, which only then carries weight before Me. You must be annihilated, 
destroyed, living as if you were dead in the most secret depths of your being. You must 
be destroyed in that secret depth where the human eye has never penetrated; then will I 
find in you a pleasing sacrifice, a holocaust full of sweetness and fragrance. And great 
will be your power for whomever you intercede. Outwardly, your sacrifice must look 
like this: silent, hidden, permeated with love, imbued with prayer. I demand, My 
daughter, that your sacrifice be pure and full of humility, that I may find pleasure in it. I 
will not spare my grace, that you may be able to fulfill what I demand of you. 

I will now instruct you on what (124) your holocaust shall consist of, in everyday life, so 
as to preserve you from illusions. You shall accept all sufferings with love. Do not be 
afflicted if your heart often experiences repugnance and dislike for sacrifice. All its 
power rests in the will, and so these contrary feelings, far from lowering the value of the 
sacrifice in My eyes, will enhance it. Know that your body and soul will often be in the 
midst of fire. Although you will not feel My presence on some occasions, I will always 
be with you. Do not fear; My grace will be with you 

Third Day. 

1768 My daughter, in this meditation, consider the love of neighbor. Is your love for your 
neighbor guided by My love? Do you pray for your enemies? Do you wish well to those 
who have, in one way or another, caused you sorrow or offended you? 

Know that whatever good (125) you do to any soul, I accept it as if you had done it to 
Me. 

1769 Application: O Jesus, my Love, You know that it has only been for a short while that I 
have acted toward my neighbor guided solely by Your love. You alone know of my 
efforts to do this. It comes to me more easily now, but if You Yourself did not kindle that 
love in my soul, I would not be able to persevere in this. This is due to Your Eucharistic 
love which daily sets me afire. 



Second Meditation. 



387 




1770 Now you shall consider My love in the Blessed Sacrament. Here, I am entirely 

yours, soul, body and divinity, as your Bridegroom. You know what love 
demands: one thing only, reciprocity 

1771 Application: O my Jesus, You know that I desire to love you with a love that no soul 
(126) has ever before loved You with. I would like the whole world to be transformed 
into love for You, my Betrothed. You feed me with the honey and milk of Your Heart. 
From my earliest years, You reared me for Yourself alone, so that I would know how to 
love You now. You know that I love You, because You alone know the depth of the 
sacrifice I offer You each day. 

1772 Jesus said to me, My daughter, have you any difficulties in this retreat? I answered 
that I hadn’t. In this retreat, my mind is like lightning. I penetrate all the mysteries of 
faith with great ease. My Master and Leader, all darkness disappears from my mind 
under the ray of Your light. 

1773 Today, for your spiritual reading, you will take the Gospel of Saint John, chapter 
twenty-one. Let it feed your heart more than your mind. 

1 774 (1 27) + During the June devotions, the Lord said to me, My daughter, My favor rests 
in your heart. When on Holy Thursday I left Myself in the Blessed Sacrament, you 
were very much on My mind. 

1775 After these words, my love made great efforts to express to Him what He was to me, but 
I was at a loss for words and burst into tears in my helplessness. And Jesus said, For 

you, I am mercy itself; therefore I ask you to offer Me your misery and this very 
helplessness of yours and, in this way, you will delight My Heart. 

1776 Today, a living flame of divine love entered my soul; if it had lasted any longer, I would 
have been consumed by the fire, freeing myself of the bonds of the present. It seemed 
to me that, if it had lasted an instant longer, I would have been drowned in the ocean of 
love. I cannot describe these arrows of love that pierce my soul. 

(128) + Conference on Mercy. 

1777 My daughter, know that My Heart is mercy itself. From this sea of mercy, graces 
flow out upon the whole world. No soul that has approached Me has ever gone 
away unconsoled. All misery gets buried in the depths of My mercy, and every 
saving and sanctifying grace flows from this fountain. My daughter, I desire that 
your heart be an abiding place of My mercy. I desire that this mercy flow out 
upon the whole world through your heart. Let no one who approaches you go 
away without that trust in My mercy which I so ardently desire for souls. 

Pray as much as you can for the dying. By your entreaties, obtain for them trust 
in My mercy, because they have most need of trust, and have it the least. Be 
assured that the grace of eternal salvation for certain souls in their final moments 
depends on your prayer. You know the whole abyss of My mercy, (129) so draw 
upon it for yourself and especially for poor sinners. Sooner would heaven and 
earth turn into nothingness than would My mercy not embrace a trusting soul. 



388 




1778 My resolution continues to be the same: to unite myself to Christ-Mercy. 

Conclusion of the Retreat. 

Last Conversation with the Lord. 

1779 Thank you, Eternal Love, for Your inconceivable kindness to me, that You would occupy 

Yourself directly with my sanctification. - My daughter, let three virtues adorn you in 
a particular way; humility, purity of intention and love. Do nothing beyond what I 
demand of you, and accept everything that My hand gives you. Strive for a life of 
recollection so that you can hear My voice, which is so soft that only recollected 
souls can hear it 

1780 (130) I could not sleep until midnight today, so deeply was I stirred by tomorrow’s 
renewal of vows. The greatness of God embraced my whole being. 

Pentecost [June 5, 1938]. Renewal of Vows. 

1781 I got up much earlier than usual and went to the chapel, steeping myself in the love of 
God. Before receiving Holy Communion, I silently renewed my religious vows. After 
Holy Communion, the infinite love of God swept over me. My soul was in communion 
with the Holy Spirit, who is the same Lord as the Father and the Son. His breath filled 
my soul with such delight that it would be useless for me to try to give even a faint idea 
of what my heart experienced. Throughout the whole day, wherever I was and 
regardless of with whom I talked, a vivid presence of God accompanied me; my soul 
was drowned in thanksgiving for these great graces. 

1 782 (131) + When I went out to the garden today, the Lord said to me, Return to your 
room, for I will be waiting for you there. As soon as I returned, I saw the Lord Jesus, 
sitting at the table and waiting for me. He looked at me kindly and said, My daughter, I 
want you to write now, because that walk would not have been in conformity with 
My will. I remained alone and immediately got down to writing. 

1783 + When I immersed myself in prayer and united myself with all the Masses that were 
being celebrated all over the world at that time, I implored God, for the sake of all these 
Holy Masses, to have mercy on the world and especially on poor sinners who were 
dying at that moment. At the same instant, I received an interior answer from God that 
a thousand souls (132) had received grace through the prayerful mediation I had offered 
to God. We do not know the number of souls that is ours to save through our prayers 
and sacrifices; therefore, let us always pray for sinners. 

1784 Today, in the course of a long conversation, the Lord said to me, How very much I 
desire the salvation of souls! My dearest secretary, write that I want to pour out 
My divine life into human souls and sanctify them, if only they were willing to 
accept My grace. The greatest sinners would achieve great sanctity, if only they 
would trust in My mercy. The very inner depths of My being are filled to 
overflowing with mercy, and it is being poured out upon all I have created. My 
delight is to act in a human soul and to fill it with My mercy (133) and to justify it. 
My kingdom on earth is My life in the human soul. Write, My secretary, that I 
Myself am the spiritual guide of souls - and I guide them indirectly through the 
priest, and lead each one to sanctity by a road known to Me alone. 



389 




1785 Mother Superior [Irene] visited me today, but only for a short while. When she looked 
around, she said that everything was too pretty here. It is true, the sisters are trying to 
make my stay in the sanatorium pleasant. But all this beauty does not lessen my 
sacrifice, which God alone can see and which will cease only when my heart stops 
beating. Neither the beauty of the whole earth, nor even of heaven itself, can blur the 
torture of my soul, which is real at each moment (134) though so deeply interior. It will 
end when You Yourself, Author of my suffering, say, “Enough.” There is nothing that 
could lessen my sacrifice. 

First Friday after Corpus Christi. [June 17, 1938] 

1786 Right away, on the Friday after Corpus Christi, I felt so unwell that I thought the long-for 
moment was approaching. I had a high fever and spat up much blood during the night. 
Yet, I did go to receive the Lord Jesus in the morning, but I could not stay for the Holy 
Mass. In the afternoon, my temperature dropped suddenly to 35.8 ° C. I felt so weak 
that it was as if everything inside me were dying. But when I steeped myself in 
profound prayer, I understood that it was not yet the moment of deliverance, but only a 
closer call from my Bridegroom. 

1 787 When I met with the Lord, I said to Him, (135) “You are fooling me, Jesus; You show me 
the open gate of heaven, and again You leave me on earth.” The Lord said to me, 

When, in heaven, you see these present days, you will rejoice and will want to see 
as many of them as possible. I am not surprised, My daughter, that you cannot 
understand this now, because your heart is overflowing with pain and longing for 
Me. Your vigilance pleases Me. Let My word be enough for you; it will not be 
long now. 

And my soul found itself once again in exile. I lovingly united myself to the will of God, 
submitting myself to His gracious decrees. 

1788 + The conversations that I hear in this place about worldly matters make me so tired 
that I nearly faint. The sisters who nurse me have noticed this, because it shows 
outwardly. 

1789 (136) + Today 253 1 saw the glory of God which flows from the image. Many souls are 
receiving graces, although they do not speak of it openly. Even though it has met up 
with all sorts of vicissitudes, God is receiving glory because of it; and the efforts of 
Satan and of evil men are shattered and come to naught. In spite of Satan’s anger, The 
Divine Mercy will triumph over the whole world and will be worshipped by all souls. 

1 790 I have come to know that, in order for God to act in a soul, it must give up acting on its 
own; otherwise, God will not carry out his will in it. 

1791 When a great storm was approaching, I began to say the chaplet. Suddenly I heard the 
voice of an angel: “I cannot approach in (137) this storm, because the light which 
comes from her mouth drives back both me and the storm.” Such was the angel’s 
complaint to God. I then recognized how much havoc he was to have made through 
this storm; but I also recognized that this prayer was pleasing to God, and that this 
chaplet was most powerful. 



390 




1792 I learned that a certain soul was very pleasing to God and that, in spite of all sorts of 
persecutions, God was clothing this person in a new and higher dignity. My heart 
greatly rejoiced in this. 

1793 The moments which are most pleasant to me are those when I converse with the Lord 

within the center of my being. I try my very best not to leave Him alone. He likes to be 
always with us 

1 794 (1 38) + O Jesus, eternal God, thank you for Your countless graces and blessings. Let 
every beat of my heart be a new hymn of thanksgiving to You, O God. Let every drop of 
my blood circulate for You, Lord. My soul is one hymn in adoration of Your mercy. I 
love You, God, for Yourself alone. 

1795 My God, although my sufferings are great and protracted, I accept them from Your 
hands as magnificent gifts. I accept them all, even the ones that other souls have 
refused to accept. You can come to me with everything, my Jesus; I will refuse You 
nothing. I ask You for only one thing: give me the strength to endure them and grant 
that they may be meritorious. Here is my whole being; do with me as You please. 

1796 (139) Today, 254 1 saw the Sacred Heart of Jesus in the sky, in the midst of a great 
brilliance. The rays were issuing from the Wound [in His side] and spreading out over 
the entire world. 

1797 Today, the Lord came to me and said, My daughter, help Me to save souls. You will 
go to a dying sinner, and you will continue to recite the chaplet, and in this way 
you will obtain for him trust in My mercy, for he is already in despair. 

1798 Suddenly, I found myself in a strange cottage where an elderly man was dying amidst 
great torments. All about the bed was a multitude of demons and the family, who were 
crying. When I began to pray, the spirits of darkness fled, with hissing and threats 
directed at me. The soul became calm and, filled with trust, rested in the Lord. 

At the same moment, I found myself again in my own room. How this happens.... I do 
not know. 

+ 

1799 (140) J.M.J. I feel that there is a power which is defending me and protecting me from 
the blows of the enemy. It guards and defends me. I feel it very distinctly; it is as if I am 
being shielded by the shadow of his wings. 

1800 My Jesus, You alone are good. Even if my heart were to make every effort to write of 
Your goodness, at least in part, I could not do so - this is beyond all our 
comprehension. 

1801 One day during Holy Mass, the Lord gave me a deeper knowledge of His holiness and 
His majesty, and at the same time I saw my own misery. This knowledge made me 
happy, and my soul drowned itself completely in his mercy. I felt enormously (141) 
happy. 



391 




1802 



On the following day, I had a clear awareness of the following words: “You see, God is 
so holy, and you are sinful. Do not approach Him, and go to Confession every day.” 
And indeed, whatever I thought of seemed to me to be a sin. But I did not omit going to 
Holy Communion, and I resolved to go to Confession at the prescribed time, as I had no 
clear impediment. But when the day for confession came, I prepared a whole mass of 
those sins of which I was to accuse myself. However, in the confessional, God allowed 
me to accuse myself of only two imperfections, despite my efforts to make a confession 
according to what I had prepared. When I left the confessional, the Lord said to me, 

My daughter, all those sins you intended to confess are not sins in My eyes; (142) 
that is why I took away your ability to tell them. I understood that Satan, wanting to 
disturb my peace, has been giving me exaggerated thoughts. O Savior, how great is 
Your goodness! 

1803 One day, when I was preparing for Holy Communion and noticed that I had nothing to 
offer Him, I fell at His feet, calling down all His mercy upon my poor soul: “May Your 
grace, which flows down upon me from Your Compassionate Heart, strengthen me for 
the struggle and sufferings, that I may remain faithful to You. And, although I am such 
misery, I do not fear You, because I know Your mercy well. Nothing will frighten me 
away from You, O God, because everything is so much less (143) than what I know 
[Your mercy to be] - I see that clearly.” 

[Here ends the sixth and last notebook] 



392 




My Preparation for 
Holy Communion 



393 




( 1 ) 



+ 

J.M.J. 



Cracow, January 10, 1938 



My Preparation for Holy Communion 



Sister Maria Faustina 
of the Blessed Sacrament 



Congregation of the Sisters 
of Our Lady of Mercy 



394 




1804 (2) The most solemn moment of my life is the moment when I receive Holy Communion. 
I long for each Holy Communion, and for every Holy Communion I give thanks to the 
Most Holy Trinity. 

If the angels were capable of envy, they would envy us for two things; one is the 
receiving of Holy Communion, and the other is suffering. 

1805 1 . + Today, I am preparing myself for Your coming as a bride does for the coming of her 
bridegroom. He is a great Lord, this Bridegroom of mine. The heavens cannot contain 
Him. The Seraphim who stand closest to Him cover their faces and repeat unceasingly: 
Holy, Holy, Holy. 

This great Lord is my Bridegroom. It is to Him that the Choirs sing. It is before Him that 
the Thrones bow down. By His splendor the sun is eclipsed. And yet this great Lord is 
my Bridegroom. My heart, desist from this profound meditation on how others adore 
him, for you no longer have time for that, as He is coming and is already at your door. 

1806 I go out to meet Him, and I invite Him to the dwelling place of my heart, humbling myself 
profoundly before His majesty. But the Lord lifts me up from the dust and invites me, as 
His bride, to sit next to Him and to tell Him everything (3) that is on my heart. And I, set 
at east by His kindness, lean my head on His breast and tell Him of everything. In the 
first place, I tell Him things I would never tell to any other creature. And then, I speak 
about the needs of the Church, about the souls of poor sinners and about how much 
they have need of His mercy. But the time passes quickly. Jesus, I muyst go to carry 
out the duties that are awaiting me. Jesus tells me that there is still a moment in which 
to say farewell. A deep mutual gaze, and we seemingly separate for a while; but, in 
reality, we never do. Our hearts are constantly united. Though outwardly I am 
distracted by my various duties, the presence of Jesus plunges me constantly in 
profound recollection. 

1807 2. + Today, my preparation for the coming of Jesus is brief, but imprinted deeply with 
vehement love. The presence of God penetrates me and sets aflame my love for Him. 
There are no words; there is only interior understanding. I drown completely in God, 
through love. The Lord approaches the dwelling of my heart. After receiving 
Communion, I have just enough presence of mind to return to my kneeler. At the same 
time, my soul (4) is completely lost in God, and I no longer know what is going on about 
me. God gives me an interior knowledge of His Divine Being. These moments are 
short, but penetrating. The soul leaves the chapel in profound recollection, and it is not 
easy to distract it. At such times, I touch the ground with only one foot, as it were. No 
sacrifice throughout such a day is either difficult or burdensome. Every situation evokes 
a new act of love. 

1808 3. + Today, I invite Jesus to my heart, as Love. You are Love itself. All heaven catches 
the flame from You and is filled with love. And so my soul covets You as a flower 
yearns for the sun. Jesus, hasten to my heart, for You see that, as the flower is eager 
for the sun, so my heart is for You. I open the calyx of my heart to receive Your love. 

1809 When Jesus came to my heart, everything in my soul trembled with life and with 
warmth. Jesus, take the love from my heart and pour into it Your love, Your love which 



395 




is burning and radiant, which knows how to bear each sacrifice, which knows how to 
forget itself completely. 

Today, my day is marked by sacrifice 

1810 (5) 4. + Today, I prepare for the Coming of the King. What am I, and who are You, O 
Lord, King of eternal glory? O my heart, are you aware of who is coming to you today? 
Yes, I know, but - strangely - I am not able to grasp it. Oh, if He were just a king, but 
He is the King of kings, the Lord of lords. Before Him, all power and dominion tremble. 
He is coming to my heart today. But I hear Him approaching. I go out to meet Him and 
invite Him. When He entered the dwelling of my heart, it was filled with such reverence 
that it fainted with fear, falling at His feet. Jesus gives her His hand and graciously 
permits her to take her place beside Him. He reassures her, saying, See, I have left 
My heavenly throne to become united with you. What you see is just a tiny part 
and already your soul swoons with love. How amazed will your heart be when 
you see Me In all My glory. 

181 1 But I want to tell you that eternal life must begin already here on earth through 
Holy Communion. Each Holy Communion makes you more capable of 
communing with God throughout eternity. 

And so, my King, I do not ask You for anything although I know that (6) You can give 
me everything. I ask You for one thing only: remain forever the King of my heart; that is 
enough for me. 

1812 Today I am renewing my act of submission to my King, by faithfulness to interior 
inspirations. 

1813 5. + Today, I am not forcing myself to make any special preparation. I cannot think of 
anything, though I feel many things. I long for the time when God will come to my heart. 

I throw myself in His arms and tell Him about my inability and my misery. I pour out all 
the pain of my heart, for not being able to love Him as much as I want. I arouse within 
myself acts of faith, hope and charity and live on that throughout the day. 

1814 6. + Today, my preparation is brief. A strong and living faith nearly tears away the veil 
of love. The presence of God penetrates my heart as a ray from the sun penetrates 
crystal. At the moment when I receive God, all my being is steeped in Him. 

Amazement and admiration overwhelm me when I see God’s great majesty, which 
stoops down to me who am misery itself. There bursts forth from my soul immense 
gratitude to (7) Him for all the graces that He imparts to me, and especially for the grace 
of being called to His exclusive service. 

1815 7. + Today, in Holy Communion, I want to unite myself to Jesus as closely as possible, 
through love. I yearn for God so ardently that it seems to me that the moment will never 
come when the priest will give me Holy Communion. My soul falls as if into a swoon 
because of my longing for God. 

1816 When I received Him into my heart, the veil of faith was torn away. I saw Jesus who 
said to me, My daughter, your love compensates Me for the coldness of many 



396 




souls. After these words, I was once again alone, but throughout the whole day I lived 
in an act of reparation. 

1817 8. + Today, I feel an abyss of misery in my soul. I want to approach Holy Communion 
as a fountain of mercy and to drown myself completely in this ocean of love. 

When I received Jesus, I threw myself into Him as into an abyss of unfathomable 
mercy. And the more I felt I was misery itself, the stronger grew my trust in Him. 

In this abasement, I passed the whole day. 

1818 (8) 9. + Today, my soul has the disposition of a child. I united myself to God as a child 
to its father. I feel completely like a child of God. 

181 9 When I had received Holy Communion, I had a deeper knowledge of the heavenly 
Father and of His Fatherhood in relation to souls. 

Today I live, glorifying the Holy Trinity. I thank God that He has deigned to adopt us as 
His children through grace. 

1820 10.+ Today, I want to be transformed, whole and entire, into the love of Jesus and to 
offer myself, together with Him, to the Heavenly Father. 

During Holy Mass, I saw the Infant Jesus in the chalice, and He said to me, I am 

dwelling in your heart as you see Me in this chalice. 

1821 After Holy Communion, I felt the beating of the Heart of Jesus in my own heart. 

Although I have been aware, for a long time, that Holy Communion continues in me until 
the next Communion, today - and throughout the whole day - I am adoring Jesus in my 
heart and asking Him, by His grace, to protect little children from the evil that threatens 
them. A vivid and even physically felt presence of God continues throughout the day 
and does not in the least interfere with my duties. 

1822 (9) 1 1. + Today, my soul desires to show, in a special way, its love to Jesus. When the 
Lord entered my heart, I threw myself down at His feet like a rosebud. I want the 
fragrance of my love to rise continually to the foot of Your throne. You see, Jesus, in 
this rosebud, all my heart [offered] to You, not only now when my heart is burning like a 
live coal, but also during the day, when I will give You proofs of my love by faithfulness 
to divine grace. 

Today, all the difficulties and sufferings that I will encounter, I will quickly seize, like 
rosebuds, to throw at the feet of Jesus. Little matter that the hand, or rather the heart, 
bleeds 

1 823 1 2. + Today, my soul is preparing for the coming of my Savior, who is goodness and 
love itself. Temptations and distractions torment me and do not let me prepare for the 
coming of the Lord. Therefore I desire even more ardently to receive You, Lord, 
because I know that when You come, You will rescue me from these torments. And if it 
is Your will that I should suffer, well then, fortify me for the struggle. 



397 




Jesus, Savior, who have deigned (10) to come into my heart, drive away these 
distractions which are keeping me from talking to You. 

Jesus answered me, I want you to become like a knight experienced in battle, who 
can give orders to others amid the exploding shells. In the same way, My child, 
you should know how to master yourself amid the greatest difficulties, and let 
nothing drive you away from Me, not even your falls. 

Today, I have been struggling all day long with a certain difficulty about which You, 
Jesus, know 

1 824 1 3. + Today my heart trembles with joy. I desire very much that Jesus come to my 
heart. My longing heart is inflamed with an ever-increasing love. 

When Jesus came, I threw myself into His arms like a little child. I told Him of my joy. 
Jesus listened to these outpourings of my love. When I asked pardon of Jesus for not 
preparing myself for Holy Communion, but for continually thinking of sharing in this joy 
as soon as possible, He answered that Most pleasing to Me is this preparation with 
which you have received Me into your heart. Today, in a special way I bless this 
your joy. Nothing will disturb that joy throughout this day 

1825 (11) 14. + Today, my soul is preparing for the coming of the Lord, who can do all things, 
who can make me perfect and holy. I am preparing very carefully for His reception, but 
there arose the difficulty as to how to present this to Him? I rejected it [this difficulty] at 
once. I will present it as my heart dictates. 

1826 When I had received Jesus in Holy Communion, my heart cried out with all its might, 
“Jesus, transform me into another host! I want to be a living host for You. You are a 
great and all-powerful Lord; You can grant me this favor.” And the Lord answered me, 

You are a living host, pleasing to the Heavenly Father. But reflect: What is a 
host? A sacrifice. And so ? 

O my Jesus, I understand the meaning of “host,” the meaning of sacrifice. I desire to be 
before Your Majesty a living host; that is, a living sacrifice that daily burns in Your honor. 

When my strength begins to fail, it is Holy Communion that will sustain me and give me 
strength. Indeed, I fear the day on which I would not receive Holy Communion. My soul 
draws astonishing strength from Holy Communion. 

O living Host, light of my soul! 

1827 (12) 15. + Today, my soul is preparing for Holy Communion as for a wedding feast, 
wherein all the participants are resplendent with unspeakable beauty. And I, too, have 
been invited to this banquet, but I do not see that beauty within myself, only an abyss of 
misery. And, although I do not feel worthy of sitting down to table, I will however slip 
under the table, at the feet of Jesus, and will beg for the crumbs that fall from the table. 
Knowing Your mercy, I therefore approach You, Jesus, for sooner will I run out of 
misery than will the compassion of Your Heart exhaust itself. That is why during this 
day I will keep arousing trust in The Divine Mercy. 



398 




1828 



16. + Today, the Majesty of God is surrounding me. There is no way that I can help 
myself to prepare better. I am thoroughly enwrapped in God. My soul is being inflamed 
by His love. I only know that I love and am loved. That is enough for me. I am trying 
my best to be faithful throughout the day to the holy Spirit and to fulfill His demands. I 
am trying my best for interior silence in order to be able to hear His voice 



399 




Abbreviations 

Used in the Footnotes 



A.A.S. 

A. SF. 

A. SF. Recol. 



A. SJ-C 
A. SMDM-C 
A. SMDM-C and D 

A. SMDM-D 
Cf. 

Const. Congr. 



Acts of the Apostolic See 

Archives of Sister Faustina 

Archives of Sister Faustina; Recollections of people 
Who knew her. 

Archives of the Society of Jesus - Cracow 

Archives of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy-Chronicles 

Archives of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy - Chronicles 
and Death Records 

Archives of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy - Death Records 
confer 

Constitutions of the Congregation (of the Sisters of Our 
Lady of Mercy) 



400 




Footnotes 



to the Diary of 

Saint Maria Faustina Kowalska 
of the Congregation of Our Lady of Mercy 



1 . On February 22, 1931 , while staying at Plock, Sister Faustina received Jesus’ 
order to paint a picture according to a model that was shown to her (cf. Diary 47). 

The Saint tried to fulfill the command, but not knowing painting techniques, she was 
unable to do it by herself. Still, she did not give up the idea. She kept returning to it and 
sought help from other sisters and from her confessors. 

A few years later her superior sent her to Vilnius (Wilno), where her confessor, Rev. 
Prof. Michael Sopocko, interested to see what the picture of a hitherto unknown theme would 
look like, asked the painter Eugene Kazimierowski to paint the picture according to Sister 
Faustina’s directions. The picture was finished in June 1934 and hung in the corridor of the 
Bernardine Sisters’ convent near St. Michael’s Church in Vilnius, where Father Sopocko was 
rector. 



In 1935, during the celebrations concluding the jubilee Year of the Redemption of the 
World, the image of The divine Mercy was transferred to the Ostra Brama [“Eastern Gate” to 
the city of Vilnius] and placed in a high window so that it could be seen from far away. It was 
there from April 16 to April 28. By permission of Archbishop Romuald Jalbrzykowski, on April 
4, 1937, the image was blessed and placed in St. Michael’s Church in Vilnius. 

In 1944, a committee of experts was formed, at the order of Archbishop Jalbrzykowski, 
to evaluate the image. The experts’ opinion was that the image of The Divine Mercy, painted 
by E. Kazimierowski was artistically executed and an important contribution to contemporary 
religious art. 

There are several characteristic features of this original image. Against a plain 
background Christ is shown walking, with a narrow halo around His head, and his eyes 
slightly downcast, as if He were looking from above at the spectators. His right hand is 
raised in a gesture of blessing; while His left hand is opening the robe at His Heart (not 
shown), from which two rays of light issue, a pale one to the viewer’s right, a red one to the 
left. The light of these rays shines through the hands and the robe. 

In 1943, in Lwow, at the request of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy, Stanley Batowski 
painted another image, which was placed in a side altar of the community chapel at No. 3/9 
Zytnia Street in Warsaw. During the Warsaw uprising, this chapel (and with it the image) was 
burned. 

Batowski’s image was very much liked by everyone. Encouraged by this, the Superior 
General of the Community of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy asked Batowski to paint 
another one for the house in Cracow, where the new form of devotion to The Divine Mercy 
was already expanding. The image was painted and sent to Cracow on October 6, 1943. 



401 




In the meantime, the superior of the Cracow house had been approached by the 
painter Adolf Hyla, who offered to paint some sort of picture for the sisters’ chapel as a votive 
offering for having survived the war. The superior, Mother Irene Krzyzanowska, after 
consulting with the senior sisters and Father Andrasz, S.J., suggested that Mr. Hyla should 
paint the image according to Sister Faustina’s directions. For that purpose, he was given the 
description (taken from Sister Faustina’s Diary) along with a small copy of the image painted 
by Eugene Kazimierowski. 

The image was finished in Autumn of 1 943 and brought to the Cracow house. 
Batowski’s image arrived at the same time. For this reason a problem arose - which of the 
images should be kept in the sisters’ chapel? It was settled by Cardinal Sapieha, who by 
chance happened to be present there. He inspected the two pictures and said, “Since Hyla 
has painted his picture as a votive offering, that picture should stay in the sisters’ chapel.” 

He blessed the picture and ordered that it be hung. To this day the picture remains in the 
side altar to the left of the main entrance, in the Chapel of the Congregation of the Sisters of 
Our Lady of Mercy at No. 3/9 Wronia Street in Cracow, and is held in reverence as the image 
painted under the direction of Sister Faustina Kowalska. People from all over Poland and 
from abroad come to this image of the Merciful Christ o beg for needed graces. There are 
many votive offerings, and copies of the image are found all over the world. 

S. Batowski’s picture was placed in the Church of The Divine Mercy at Smolensk 
Street in Cracow. 

Over the years, many other painters have painted images of The Divine Mercy, based 
on either existing representations or on Saint Faustina’s diary. 

2 . That is; in the picture. 

3 . During her stay in Vilnius, Sister Faustina was told by her confessor, Father 
Michael Sopocko, to write down her interior experiences. 

When asked by someone in the Congregation why Sister Faustina had been writing a 
diary, Father Sopocko answered: “I was a professor at the Seminary and at the School of 
Theology of the Stefan Batory University in Vilnius at the time. I had no time to listen to her 
lengthy confessions at the confessional, so I told her to write everything down and then to 
show it to me from time to time. This is how the Diary came into being” (Father Sopocko’s 
letter of March 6, 1972). 

Sister Faustina mentions the confessor’s order in numbers 6 and 839 of the Diary. 

In addition to this order from her confessor, the Saint mentions, on many pages of her 
Diary, a distinct command to write, given her by the Lord jesus Himself (see Diary nos. 372, 
459, 895, 965, 1 1 42, 1 457, 1 567, 1 665, and others). 

4 . Aldona Lipszycowa then lived in Ostrowek in the district of Radzymin. She was 
born on Aprill 4, 1896 in Tbilisi, USSR, the daughter of Serafin Jastrzebski and Mary Lemke. 
In 1965/66 she was one of the witnesses in the informative process of the Servants of God. 

“My husband,” she recalls, “had asked the pastor of St. James Parish in the suburb of 
Ochota, to find someone to help me in my housework. Rev. Canon James Dabrowski, when 



402 




pastor in Klebow, became my husband’s friend. He baptized him, blessed our marriage and 
baptized all our children. The Rev. Canon sent us - in the summer of 1924 - Helen Kowalski 
with a note that he did not know her, but hoped she would be all right” (A. SF. Recol.). 

5 . The convent of the Congregation of the sisters of Our Lady of Mercy at No. 3/9 
Zytnia Street in Warsaw. 

6. Mother Michael - Olga Moraczewska was born in 1873. She was considered 
highly educated for those times. She spoke several languages and completed the 
Conservatory of Music. She entered the congregation later in life. After making her final 
profession of vows, she was appointed superior of the house in Warsaw. She kept this 
position until 1 928. After the term of office of the Superior General M. Leonard Cielecka, she 
administrated the entire Congregation. During her administration as Superior General, the 
Constitutions of the Congregations received approbation. She dearly loved her community 
and sought its spiritual and material development. She founded new homes in Warsaw in 
the suburb of Grochow, in Rabka, in Lwow, and in Biala, a house affiliated to the house in 
Plock, 1 0 km away. 

She died in Cracow November 15, 1966, and is buried in the Congregation’s cemetery 
(A.SMDM-C). 

7 . It is a Community tradition that sisters stay under the same roof with the Lord 
Jesus in the Eucharist. Since the chapel at the Warsaw house was in a separate building a 
few meters from the sisters’ house, a second chapel was made on the second floor of the 
sisters’ convent. By permission of the Archbishop’s Curia, the Blessed Sacrament was kept 
there and, in accord with church law, on certain days the Holy Mass was said. The chapel 
was commonly referred to as “The Little Chapel” or “The Little Jesus.” 

8. According to the Congregation’s custom, canonical silence was observed from 9:00 
p.m. Private prayers could be recited silently. Most likely the Saint thought that praying 
prostrate on the floor, not the prayer itself, offended this custom. 

9 . The “superiors” could be the superior general and the directress of the postulants, 
for they decided whether the Saint would be admitted to the reception of the habit and so to 
the novitiate in Cracow. 

The superior general at the time was Mother Leonard Cielecka, born December 24, 
1850 in Paplin Ziemi Siedleckiej. She came from a family of landowners, and received a 
higher education in several languages and music. Entering the Congregation on September 
1, 1885, she made her perpetual vows in Warsaw in 1893, and was given responsible 
positions in the Congregation at an early age. In 1908 she became superior of the house in 
Derdy near Warsaw. From 1 91 2 she was superior in Warsaw, and from 1 91 8, in Walendow. 
After the Congregation separated from its General headquarters in France, in 1922 at the 
First Chapter in Poland, she became the first Superior General of all the homes in Poland. 
She kept this post for 6 years; i.e., until 1 928, and then became assistant to the new Superior 
General. She died November 1 , 1933. 

The directress of the postulants, Mother Jane Bartkiewicz, was born July 31 , 1858. 

She entered the Congregation on December 10, 1877, and made her perpetual vows in 



403 




Laval, France in 1885. While the Congregation of Our Lady of Mercy was dependent on the 
General Home in France, Mother Jane was Vicar General for the homes in Poland. 



She was a sturdy and energetic person, sometimes even despotic. She greatly loved 
the Congregation and wished its good, trying to achieve this in a way repugnant to human 
nature. Her relationship to candidates and the young professed was peculiarly warm and 
affectionate. She knew how to be tenderhearted, but at the same time her method of 
disciplining the sisters created an atmosphere of fear. 

After finishing her term as Vicar General, she was for a time the Directress of Novices 
and of the third probation. For this reason she felt throughout her life that she had the 
privilege of correcting the young sisters. She died in Warsaw July 1 , 1 940 (A. SMDM-C and 
D). 



10. Helen Kowalska arrived in Cracow on January 23, 1926, to finish her postulancy. 
That same day Sister Henry Losinska died in Cracow. Sister Henry was born on January 20, 
1897. She entered the Community in 1920 and worked as a shoemaker (A. SMDM-D). 

1 1 . Sister Margaret - Anna Gimbutt, was born in 1 857 and entered the Congregation 
in 1893. She was of great service to the Congregation, performing the duty of Directress of 
Novices, superior of the house in Vilnius, and then, Instructress of the Third Probation. She 
was known for her spirit of self-denial, mortification, demanding much of herself. Humble, 
meek, always prayerful, outstanding in keeping of the rules, she was an example to the 
sisters, especially those who were in her care. 

12. Bishop Stanislaus Rospond, born September 30, 1877, in Liszki near Cracow. 
After graduating from St. Ann’s High School in Cracow, he entered the Seminary for the 
Priesthood. After a year he was sent for further studies in Insbruck, receiving the degree of 
Doctor of Theology in 1 904. He was ordained priest on August 1 0, 1 901 . He became 
prefect of the Seminary in Cracow, and then, rector. He was the ordinary confessor of the 
Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy. On June 12, 1927, he was consecrated bishop. He was Vicar 
General for many years. His relationship with the Congregation of the Sisters of Our Lady of 
Mercy was very cordial, and he took part in all the celebrations of the Congregation. Twice a 
year he was the main celebrant at the clothing ceremony and profession of vows. He died 
February 4, 1958 and is buried in his family grave in Liszki. 

13. It was clothing day - April 30, 1926. Sister Clemens Buczek recalls that she was 
helping the candidates put on their habits. She wrote in her memoirs: “In May [sic], 1926, I 
was to dress Helen Kowalska. After she received the habit at the altar, I told her, ‘Helen, let 
us hurry to put on your habit.’ Helen fainted. I hurried to get the smelling salts in order to 
revive her.... Later I used to tease her about her loathing to leave the world. I only found out 
after her death that the reason of her fainting was not sorrow for the world, but something 
else” (A. SF.Recol.). 

14 . Sister Mary Joseph, Stephanie Brzoza, born in 1889. She entered the 
congregation in 1909 and made her perpetual vows on May 15, 1917. She was a group 
instructor of the girls in the Cracow institute. In 1925 she was sent to the General House of 
the Congregation in Laval, France, to observe more closely the formation of novices and to 
absorb the spirit of the Congregation. After her return from Laval, she became directress of 
the novitiate on June 20, 1926, until October 30, 1934. She was an exemplary directress 



404 




and a great discerner of souls. She was demanding, but at the same time full of motherly 
care and benevolence toward each novice. At the General Chapter in 1934, she was chosen 
to be a member of the General Council and simultaneously, superior of the Generalate in 
Warsaw. Five years later she died of cancer on November 9, 1 939 (A. SMDM-C and D). 

15. Father Theodore Czaputa was then the confessor of the novitiate. Born in 1884, 
he was ordained priest July 7, 1907. Fie completed his theological studies at the Jagiellonian 
University in Cracow. From 1916 he taught religion in the high schools in Cracow. Fie was 
then made rector of the Minor Seminary and Tribunal Judge. 

From November 1 925 he was confessor of the novices of the Congregation of Our 
Lady of Mercy. Fie performed this function almost until death, and the novices had great 
confidence in him. Because of ill health, he was released of the duties of rector and moved 
to Lagiewniki to become chaplain of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy. Fie died March 2, 

1945 (A. Cracow Curia). 

16. Superiors in the Congregation may command “in the name of holy obedience” 
only professed sisters. A novice was not obliged to obey such a command. If the directress 
used these words, she was relying on the good will and virtue of the novice, who by 
subordinating herself to the command could be relieved of these painful experiences (See 
Const. Congr. Art., 96-99). 

17 . She probably means the words of the prophet Isaiah (49:15 JB): “Does a woman 
forget her baby at the breast, or fail to cherish the son of her womb? Yet even if these forget, 

I will never forget you”. 

18 . Some details of the text suggest that it was at the Warsaw house. The superior 
was Mother Raphael Buczynska. She was one of the most outstanding superiors. She 
distinguished herself by a clear, healthy judgment of people and things, a very practical 
sense, and at the same time a deep spiritual life. She loved the congregation and cared for 
its material and spiritual growth. In her relations to the sisters she was loving, 
straightforward, and discerning. She knew how to evaluate and put to use the 
accomplishments of each sister. She never degraded an individual, but rather tried to raise 
each one’s spirit, come to her aid and cheer her up. M. Raphael - Catherine Buczynska was 
born December 23, 1879. She entered the Congregation October 18, 1900, and died 
December 23, 1956 (A. SMDM-C). 

19. The description points to the Warsaw house. The chapel was in a separate 
building. The entrance was from the yard. At that time the chapel was used exclusively by 
the sisters and their students. Lay persons hardly ever came there. 

20 . The Community was running homes for morally neglected and “difficult” girls. 
These were commonly referred to as “students,” “wards,” or “children.” They were sent to the 
sisters by the Social Service or by parents, and some came of their own accord to do 
“penance.” There were up to 230 girls at the Zytnia house. They were divided into three 
groups called “classes.” The sister in charge of a group was called the “Mother of the Class.” 

The entire description of the vision seems to be a prediction of the difficulties which 
the Saint will face in her work as apostle of The divine Mercy. It also predicts the final 
triumph of this work, and herself in it. 



405 




21 . The confessors were Father Kulesza and Father Roslaniec; the extraordinary 
confessor was Father Aloysius Bukowski, S.J. 

22 . The Rev. Prof. Michael Sopocko, born on November 1, 1888, at Nowosady, in the 
Vilnius region. Fie studied at the Roman Catholic Seminary in Vilnius. Fie was ordained 
priest on June 15, 191 4. Later he was graduated from the School of Theology of the Warsaw 
University and (in 1924) from the State Pedagogical Institute. 

In 1928 the Ministry of Religion and Public Education appointed him to the Chair of 
Pastoral Theology at the School of Theology of the Stefan Batory University in Vilnius. 

In 1934 he became docent of the Warsaw University, officially delegated to the Chair 
of Pastoral Theology at the University of Vilnius. In the same year he became rector of St. 
Michael’s Church in Vilnius. For many years he was confessor to many communities of 
monks and nuns. He was ordinary confessor of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy from 
January 1 , 1 933 to January 1 , 1 942. 

During the war he was professor at the Seminary at Bialystok, where the Vilnius 
seminary had been transferred (A. SF. Autobiography). 

The chronicle of the Cracow house states that Father Sopocko was in Cracow on 
August 28, 1 938. It is very likely that he visited the Servant of God at Pradnik then, but her 
notes stop before that date. 

The Rev. Msgr. Dr. Michael Sopocko died on Sister faustina’s name day, February 15, 
1976, at 8 p.m. at Bialystok. The funeral took place on February 19. The main celebrant 
was His Excellency Most Rev. Bishop Henry Gulbinowicz, the diocesan ordinary. With him 
80 priests concelebrated. His Eminence, Stepehn Card. Wyszynski, Primate of Poland, sent 
a telegram expressing his condolences. 

23 . Before arriving in Vilnius, the Saint had seen her future spiritual director in two 
visions. The first took place in Warsaw, during the third probation, the second in Cracow 
(See Diary, par. 53 and 61). 

24 . This was not yet consumption, which later spread throughout her whole body, but 
general exhaustion due to a new way of life, intense spiritual combat and experiences which 
made it difficult for her to perform her duties. 

25 . She was working in the girls’ kitchen, where meals were prepared for more than 
200 people. 

26 . As the doctors found no organic disease in Sister Faustina, the sisters thought 
that she was feigning illness, and that she preferred prayer to work (A. SF. Recol.). 

27 . As Sodom and Gomorrah were destroyed by fire falling from heaven (See 
Genesis 19:24), so Warsaw was indeed destroyed during World War II, as were many Polish 
towns, by incendiary and demolition bombs dropped from aircraft. 



406 




28 . “Jozefinek,” a newly created house of the Community, at 44 Hetmanska Street in 
the Grochow section of Warsaw. The new house was administered by the superior of the 
house at 3/9 Zytnia Street. 

29 . The confessors at Plock were Rev. Msgr. Adolf Modzelewski, Rev. Msgr. Louis 
Wilkonski, and Rev. Waclaw Jezusek. 

30 . The superior of the Plock house was Mother Rose-Jane Klobukowska, born in 
1882. She entered the congregation in 1902, and made her perpetual vows in 1909. She 
was superior in many of the houses of the congregation. From 1 934-1 945 she was Assistant 
to the Superior General. From 1 946-1 952 she was Superior General. 

31 . Father Joseph Andrasz, S.J., born at Zakopane on October 1 6, 1 891 . He entered 
the Jesuit Order on September 22, 1 906, and was ordained on March 19, 191 9. He worked 
at the Jesuit Publishing House (Wydawnictwo Apostolstwa Modlitwy) for eight years. In 1930 
be became the manager of the Publishing House and editor of the monthly Messenger of the 
Sacred Heart (Poslaniec Serca Jezusowego). From 1 932 he was the extraordinary 
confessor of the novitiate of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy. He died on February 1 , 1963 
(A. SJ-C). 



32 . Spiritual childhood according to the conception of St. Therese of the Child Jesus 
(See Autobiography of a Soul). 

33 . Vilnius lies on the Wilia River. Across the river from the town, on woody hills, 
were the stations of the cross called “Calvary” (Polish Kalwaria). Going from station to 
station was called “Walking the Paths.” It was possible to get there from the sisters’ house 
by boat. 

34 . Mother Irene Krzyzanowska. Sister Irene - Mary Krzyzanowska was born on 
November 25, 1 889. She entered the Congregation on December 7, 1916 and made her 
perpetual vows April 30, 1934. She greatly loved the youth and was wholeheartedly given to 
the apostolic work. She served as educator in the institute for girls, assistant to the Superior 
General. After years of sacrificial toil she died in Wroclaw on December 3, 1971. 

35 . Probably Sister Justine Golofit, a friend from the days of novitiate. Mother Irene, 
wanting to please the Servant of God, appointed her as a companion. 

Sister Justine Golofit, born July 5, 1908 entered the Congregation in August 1927. 

She made her perpetual vows on October 39, 1934. After that she worked in the kitchen in 
Warsaw, Vilnius, and Radom. Because of heart trouble, she then did lighter work. She was 
one of the witnesses during the informational Process of the Servant of God. 

36 . Biala, a village near Plock (today known for its petroleum fields), where the 
Community had purchased some farm buildings and set up a rest home for the sisters and 
wards of the Plock house. The sisters lived in a small farmhouse situated in the garden, with 
the main entrance from the side of the garden. There was a porch before the main door. 

37. Probably Father Peter Trojanczyk, who was recuperating at Biala and, at the 
same time, as the Community’s chaplain, served the sisters in spiritual matters. While 



407 




decorating the chapel with flowers, Sister Faustina probably wanted to put some in the 
chaplain’s quarters. 

Rev. Peter T rojanczyk was born April 30, 1 887 and was ordained priest on June 22, 

1 913. On March 7, 1 941 , he was arrested by the Germans and sent to the camp in 
Dzialdow, where he was murdered that same year (Monthly Pastoral. Plock, nr. 9, 1949). 

38 . The wards were: Imelda, Edwarda, Ignasia, Margaret and Hedwig Owar (See A. 
SF. And letter J. Owar). The first four have died. Hedwig Owar was a witness in the 
information process. 

The Act concerning the vision was written in Vilnius on November 28, 1 934 and 
signed by Sister Faustina, Sister Taida (who recorded Sister Faustina’s statements), and 
Imelda. Mother Irene, the superior of the house, verified its authenticity. 

39 . The Directresses of the Novitiate made their own handbook on the vows, based 
on the work of Fr. Peter Cotelle, S.J., “A Catechism of Vows.” Each novice was to write the 
questions and answers in her notebook and study them by heart. 

40 . In the Community of Our Lady of Mercy, sisters live in common rooms, several to 
one room. The place occupied by each is separated from the others by a stable partition. 
These partitioned places are called cells. 

41 . Sister Stanislaus Stepczynska, who was ill, was staying at the Plock house at the 
time. Seeing that Sister Faustina was more recollected, meek and prayerful, she spied on 
her and even checked her bed in search of extraordinary tools of penance (information 
provided by Sister Christine Korzeniowska). 

42 . That is elsewhere in the diary. For a long time Sister Faustina did not take notes 
of her experiences and of graces received. It was only at the explicit order of her confessor, 
Father Sopocko, that she began to write down her experiences as they occurred, and also 
earlier ones as she remembered them. After some time, she burned her notes. Father 
Sopocko gives the following account: “When I was in the Holy Land for a few weeks, she 
was persuaded by a supposed angel to burn the diary. As penance, I told her to reconstruct 
the part destroyed. But in the meantime new experiences came, and she wrote down new 
and old things alternately. Hence the lack of chronological order in the diary.” 

43 . There are indications that it was in the house in Zytnia Street in Warsaw. The 
following senior mothers were there at the time: Mother Jane Bartkiewicz, Mother Margaret 
Gimbutt, Mother Raphael Buczynska, Mother Michael Moraczewska, Superior General. 

There is some probability that it was done by Mother Jane Bartkiewicz, who was very much 
interested in the young sisters. 

44 . Perpetual vows. In the Congregation of Our Lady of Mercy, the Superior General, 
after hearing her Council, either admits a professed sister to perpetual vows or dismisses her 
after five years of temporary vows (Const.). 

45 . Sister Faustina was set at peace during a retreat conducted by Father Andrasz 
from April 20 to April 30, 1933. He understood her and gave her sound advice on how to 
proceed along the road of God’s readings. 



408 




46 . The Saint had in mind here the fulfillment of God’s desires regarding the painted 
image of Christ with the red and pale rays and the signature: “Jesus, I trust in You”; the 
public veneration of the image; and the making known of the chaplet and novena to The 
Divine Mercy. All these demands were realized as a result of the endeavors of Father 
Sopocko. 

47 . Sister Faustina, then a postulant, was working in the kitchen with Sister 
Marcianna Oswiecimska. Sister Marcianna told her to wash and put away the dishes, and 
left. Helen (later Sister Faustina) set to work, but Sisters kept coming for the second dinner, 
and every now and then one of them would ask Helen to serve her dinner or do her a favor. 
Helen, not wanting to refuse, served each one, but did not do her assigned work. When 
Sister Marcianna came back and saw the dishes still not put away, she thought Helen had 
neglected her order and told her that for a penance she was to sit on the table, while she 
herself did the work. 

Sister Marcianna - Julia Oswiecimska was born in 1 897. She entered the 
Congregation in 1 919. For many years she fulfilled the duties of a cook. She was energetic, 
demanding, but full of love of neighbor (Sister Marcianna’s Recol.). 

48 . Only superiors can give orders “by virtue of obedience,” and that concerning only 
serious matters. Sister Marcianna could not do it and certainly did not do it. She told Helen 
to sit on the table as a form of penance. Helen was surprised by this kind of penance and 
hesitated to obey the order. Then Sister Marcianna asked the postulant: “Is this what your 
obedience is like, Helen?” This question was misunderstood by Sister Faustina as an order 
“by virtue of obedience” (Sister Marcianna’s Recol.). 

49 . In some houses, including the Warsaw house at Zytnia Street, the Sisters used to 
have a night watch. The Sisters on duty would circle the house, light the yard, and look 
through the windows to protect the house against burglary. 

50 . This is the popular name of the Franciscan Sisters of the Family of Mary, a 
congregation founded by Archbishop Felinski in 1857. The motherhouse of the Congregation 
is in Warsaw, at Zelazna Street and is next to the Generalate of the Congregation of the 
Sisters of Our lady of Mercy. 

51 . See footnote 7. 

52 . She was probably replacing Sister Modest Rzeczkowska, who was ill and had to 
undergo treatment in Warsaw (Recol. Of Sister Pelagia). 

53 . All Sisters devote one day at the beginning of the month to spiritual renewal, the 
so called one-day retreat. There is no recreation on that day. The Sisters keep silence and 
have an hour of meditation, the Way of the cross, monthly examination of conscience, and a 
half hour meditation about death (cf. Const. Congr.). 

54 . Every month, each novice spent one day, appointed by the Sister Directress, as 
the so-called day of the crusade. On that day she was obliged to practice greater 
recollection and union with the Lord Jesus in the Eucharist, ask the Sister Directress for 
some additional mortification, and offer all her work, prayer and sufferings to the Lord Jesus 



409 




in atonement for sinners. Some sisters continued this practice even after leaving the 
novitiate. 

55 . Sister Faustina left 4 pages empty. She probably intended to go back and fill in 
some past experiences, but did not. 

56 . The “Third Probation” is the period of preparation for the sisters who are to make 
their perpetual vows. In the Congregation of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy, it lasts for five 
months. The Saint made her Third Probation in 1932/33 in Warsaw. The Directress was 
Mother Margaret Gimbutt. 

57 . Walendow, a house of the Congregation, located 20 km from Warsaw. The 
sisters had a home for girls there. In 1 936, at the suggestion of the Ministry of Justice, a 
reformatory for first offenders (girls and women) was established there. Apart from the 
retreat, Sister Faustina was at Walendow from March 25 till May 1 936. 

58 The retreat was conducted by Rev. Edmund Elter, S.J. He was born on November 
1 4, 1 887. He joined the order on July 1 5, 1 905. Outstandingly gifted, he studied the 
humanities, theology, and (in 1919/ 20) international law at the Warsaw University. Next he 
studied in Rome and in France. In 1 926 he became a professor of ethics at the Gregorianum 
in Rome. From 1 932 to 1 935 he was in Warsaw, and then when back to rome as a professor 
of homiletics and rhetoric. He died in Rome on August 27, 1 955. 

59 . The center of a former estate about 1 km from Walendow, where the 
Congregation has a home for children. It comes from the foundation of Princess 
Czetwertynska, who gave the Congregation a tract of agricultural land, forest and some farm 
buildings for a home for morally threatened children. Until 1947 the home was administered 
by the superior of Walendow, but since then it is an independent unit (Hist.Congr.). 

60 . “Vestiary”; that is, a storehouse for the sisters’ clothing and a sewing room for 
same. It was the duty of the sisters working there to sew new clothes and linens, to mend 
and distribute to the sisters the clothes and linens coming back from the laundry, as well as 
to provide them with needed clothing. 

61 . At that time the Congregation was divided into two choirs, the so-called director 
sisters and coadjutor sisters. The membership to one or the other was decided by the 
Congregation’s governing body on the basis of the candidate’s intellectual level, age and 
abilities. The director sisters’ task was to manage the congregation and the penitents’ 
homes. The coadjutor sisters did the manual work and served as helpers to the director 
sisters, especially in the area of physical labor (Const. Congr.). 

62 . The “iron belt” was a kind of belt made of fine wire mesh, used as an instrument 
of penance. The Sisters could wear the belt with the superior’s permission and only for a 
specified period of time. 

63. Across the hall from the “small chapel” was the congregation hall, where meetings 
were held. 

64 . “Recreation”; that is, the time given the sisters to relax after work. 



410 




65 . Sister Faustina’s younger sister, Wanda Kowalska, born in 1920. According to 
the information of their eldest sister, Josephine Jasinska nee Kowalska, shortly before World 
War II Wanda entered the Congregation of the Ursuline Sisters. During the war she was 
taken to Germany for forced labor. She did not return to Poland, but married an Englishman 
and went to England with him. Her husband was soon drafted and died in action. Wanda 
came to Poland once, but had to go back to England a few days later because of the political 
situation at the time. A few years later the family was notified by an unknown priest of 
Wanda’s serious illness and hospitalization. She has not been heard of since. 

66. Probably one of the ordinary confessors in Warsaw. 

67 . A presumed permission: when a religious does something without the superior’s 
knowledge, on the assumption that the superior would give her permission to do it. 

68. The sister finished the Third probation at the Novitiate, and so ended the period of 
temporary vows. 

69 . The pall - a large piece of black cloth with a white cross in the middle. According 
to the Congregation’s ceremonial procedure, before taking perpetual vows the sisters 
prostrated themselves before the altar and were covered with the pall as a symbol of being 
dead to the world. In the meantime, other sisters recited Psalm 129, and the bells tolled as 
during a funeral. The officiating priest, usually a bishop sprinkled the prostrate sisters with 
holy water and then said: “Rise, you who are dead to the world, and Jesus Christ will 
enlighten you.” 

70 . It may be supposed that sister Faustina refers here to Fr. Elter, S.J., who, during 
the retreat before the Third Probation, set her at peace and encouraged her to be faithful to 
God’s graces. 

71 . See footnote 32. 

72 . There was a custom in the Congregation that, every month, sisters would ask the 
superior for permission to practice little mortifications, say additional prayers, have various 
small things at their disposal, be freed from observing the regulations which they momentarily 
could not keep, and for many other things according to the individual needs of a given sister. 

73 . Bishop Rospond, a great friend of the Congregation, who for many years presided 
over the ceremonies of clothing and vows, celebrated Mass and gave the homily for the 
occasion. During the clothing ceremony he presented the postulant with the habit and veil; 
the novices with the cincture and rosary, the crucifix, and the black veil; the temporary 
professed with a burning candle and a ring as a sign of perpetual betrothal with the Lord 
Jesus (cf.12). 

74 . The Jesuits have a thirty-day retreat during their third probation, before perpetual 

vows. 



75 . The superior at Czestochowa at the time was Mother Seraphina Kikulska. Sister 
Seraphina, baptized Salomea, was born November 30, 1873. She entered the Congregation 
July 18, 1894. She was a group instructor and then superior in Cracow, Czestochowa, 
Walendow. She died June 10, 1964 (A. SMDM-C and D). 



411 




76 . The formation of the Sisters of Our lady of Mercy is based on the asceticism of St. 
Ignatius of Loyola, who distinguishes three degrees of humility. 

77 . The picture painted in Vilnius by artist Eugene Kazimierowski (cf. 1). 

78 . Probably sister Philomena Andrejko, who died in Warsaw on July 1 3, 1 934, at 
4:45 p.m. 

79 . All sisters in good health had an adoration of atonement, so-called holy hour, 
every Thursday from 9 to 1 0 p.m. Before the first Friday of the month, the adoration lasted 
all night, with sisters changing every hour. 

80 . Dr. Helen Maciejewska, born 1888, was the doctor of the Sisters in Vilnius. In 
February 1935 she moved to Wilejka to assume directorship of the county hospital. She was 
a good and valued doctor, noted for her comprehensive mind, and a sensitive and sacrificial 
heart for the sick. She died on September 21 , 1 965. 

81 . There is a church of The Divine Mercy in Smolensk Street in Cracow, built in 

1 629. Its patronal feast is celebrated on September 1 4, the Feast of the Exaltation of the 
Cross. 



82 . Chapter (Polish Kapitula) - a meeting during which the house superior gave a 
short exhortation and made observations on the observance of the rule, and the sisters 
accused themselves of external shortcomings. 

83 . The superior in Vilnius at this time was Sister Borgia - Hedwig Tichy, born 
January 25, 1 887. She entered the Congregation in 1 91 3. She was a nurse, and also a 
superior in Vilnius and Walendow. She died in Wroclaw on April 26, 1970. She was a 
witness in the informative process. 

84 . Probably Sister Frances of the bernardine Sisters who, on January 15, 1936, paid 
a visit with her superior to the Sisters in Vilnius (A. SMDM-C). 

85 . “Benediction” - a short service which concluded with a blessing with the Blessed 
Sacrament. 

86. The chain, like the belt (cf. 62), is made of a wire mesh in the shape of a bracelet 
and is used as an instrument of penance. 

87 . We know from Father Sopocko’s letter of November 1937 to Sister Faustina that 
he talked to the nuncio, Archbishop Cortesi about establishing a Feast of The Divine Mercy. 
He hoped the nuncio would present the matter to the holy Father (See Letters 160). 

88. The way she recorded the resolutions on clean sheets has been reproduced 
according to the original diary entry. 

89 . The vision concerns Father Sopocko, who was to suffer greatly because of the 
destruction of the devotion to The Divine Mercy. The prediction was almost literally fulfilled. 
Decree No. 65/52 of the Sacred Congregation of The Holy Office, dated November 28, 1958, 
and a notification of Marchy 6, 1959, prohibited the spreading of the devotion to The Divine 



412 




Mercy in the form given by Sister Faustina. As a result, the images which had been hung in 
many churches were removed. Priests stopped preaching about The Divine Mercy. Father 
Sopocko himself was severely admonished by the Holy See and suffered many other 
troubles in connection with the spreading of the devotion to The Divine Mercy. 

The Congregation of Our Lady of Mercy was also forbidden to spread the devotion; in 
consequence, the images, the chaplet, the novena and all other things that might suggest 
that the devotion was being propagated were withdrawn. It appeared that the work of mercy, 
so much recommended by Sister Faustina, had been destroyed and would never rise again. 

Until the notification, the image of The divine Mercy received much honor in the 
Congregation’s home in Cracow, where Sister Faustina died, and it was covered with votive 
offerings. A solemn Mass was held on the third Sunday of each month, and priests preached 
sermons about The Divine Mercy. The first Sunday after Easter was celebrated as the Feast 
of The Divine Mercy, which Cardinal Adam Sapieha in 1951 invested with a plenary 
indulgence for seven years. 

In view of the Holy See’s ban, the Sisters addressed the Ordinary of the Archdiocese 
of Cracow, Archbishop Baziak, to inquire what should be done with the image which hung in 
the side altar, covered with many votive offerings, and what attitude should be taken towards 
the celebrations in praise of The Divine Mercy. In answer, Archbishop Baziak ordered the 
image to be left in its place and the faithful not to be forbidden to pray before the image for 
needed graces. He also ordered the existing celebrations to be maintained. 

In this way the devotion to The Divine Mercy survived the test in the small center of 
the Congregation in Cracow, at 3/9 Wronia Street, where the body of the Saint is buried. At 
present, the devotion is again gathering force, renewing and attracting the interest of 
theologians. 

Since the first part of her prophecy was fulfilled almost literally, it could well be 
supposed that the remainder of it would also come to pass. For, regarding prophecy, the 
Word of God offers this instruction: “.... Know that, even though a prophet speaks in the 
name of the Lord, if his oracle is not fulfilled or verified, it is an oracle which the Lord did not 
speak” (Deuteronomy 18:22). The following facts attest to the genuineness of St. M. 
Faustina’s prophecy: 

On June 30, 1 978, The Sacred Congregation for the doctrine of the Faith (A.A.S. page 
350) published a “Notification” signed April 15, 1978, by His Eminence Franjo Cardinal 
Seper, Prefect, and Archbishop Jerome Hamer, O.P., Secretary. It is as follows: 

From various places, especially from Poland, even proceeding from 
competent authority, it has been asked whether the prohibitions contained in 
the “Notification” of the Sacred Congregation of the Holy Office, published in 
the Acts of the Apostolic See, in the year 1959, p. 271, regarding the devotion to 
The Divine Mercy in the forms proposed by Sister Faustina Kowalska must be 
regarded as still in force. 

This Sacred Congregation, having now in possession the many original 
documents unknown in 1959; having taken into consideration the profoundly 
changed circumstances, and having taken into account the opinion of many 



413 




Polish Ordinaries, declares no longer binding the prohibitions contained in the 
quoted “Notification.” 

On July 1 2, 1 979, in response to the Superior general of the Congregation of Marians 
of the Immaculate Conception of the B.V.M., who in the name of the Provincial Superior of 
the American Province of St. Stanislaus Kostka, of said Congregation, had asked for an 
authoritative explanation of the scope of the text in the “Notification” of 1978, rescinding the 
prohibitions to spread the devotion to The Divine Mercy proposed by Sister Faustina 
Kowalska, the Prefect of The Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith ascertained: 

In reference to that matter (raised in the letter of Father General) I have the 
honor of informing you that with the new “Notification” (A.A.S., 30 June 2978, p. 
350), arrived at in the light or original documentation examined also by the 
careful informative intervention of the then Archbishop of Cracow, Card. Karol 
Wojtyla, it was the intention of the Holy See to revoke the prohibition contained 
in the preceding “Notification” of 1959 (A.A.S, 1959, p. 271), in virtue of which it 
is understood that there no longer exists, on the part of this S. Congregation, 
any impediment to the spreading of the devotion to The Divine Mercy in the 
authentic forms proposed by the Religious Sister mentioned above [The Servant 
of God Sister Faustina Kowalska]. 

Furthermore, St. Faustina’s spiritual director lived long enough to give his sworn 
testimony regarding her holy life and heroic virtues at the beginning of the canonical process 
towards the declaration of her sainthood. Then, it was hardly three years and two months 
after his death (which occurred on February 15, 1975, and which happened to be Sr. 
Faustina’s name day, as well as the day on which St. Claude Colombiere, S.J. - the spiritual 
director of St. Margaret Mary Alacoque, to whom the devotion to the Most Sacred Heart of 
Jesus was revealed - died) that the 20-hyear prohibition concerning Sr. Faustina’s writings 
and proposed forms of The Divine Mercy Message and Devotion began to spread again with 
renewed vigor throughout the world. 

Exactly six months after the ban was lifted by Pope Paul VI, the Archbishop who 
inaugurated her beatification process was elected Pope. The second Encyclical of his 
pontificate was Dives in Misericordia [God, who is rich in mercy). It was published in 
November 1980, and immediately hailed by Non-Catholics as among the greatest of Papal 
Encyclicals, though it took Catholics almost a year to come to the realization of the timeliness 
of and need for such a teaching. At that time, Pope John Paul II had not yet seen Sr. 
Faustina’s spiritual Diary. 

Not only was Sr. Faustina beatified in 1993 and listed among the Saints during the 
Jubilee Year 2000, but during the homily on the occasion of her canonization ceremonies the 
Holy Father announced the extension to the entire Church of the Feast of The Divine Mercy, 
for the establishment of which our Lord pressed the “Secretary” and “Apostle” of His mercy to 
exert every effort. (Permission to celebrate the Second Sunday of Easter as the Feast of 
The Divine Mercy was granted to Poland in 1995 in response to a request made to the Holy 
See by the entire Polish Hierarchy.) Divine Mercy Sunday is being jubilantly and ever- 
increasingly celebrated in practically every country around the world. This happened a little 
over sixty years after St. Faustina’s death; whereas, it took a hundred years before the 
Devotion to the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus was officially established by the Church - in that 



414 




case also only after a request of all the bishops of Poland! - and another hundred years 
before the Feast of the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus was extended to the universal Church. 

What is more, as though expressing the fulfillment of St. Faustina’s prophecy: “And 
then God will act with great power, which will give evidence of its authenticity. It will be a 
new splendor lor the Church, although it has been dormant in it from long ago." The 
Holy Father declared in the same homily: “Jesus told Sr. Faustina: “Humanity will not find 
peace until it turns trustfully to divine mercy’ (Diary, p. 132). Through the work of the Polish 
religious, this message has become linked forever to the 20 th century, the last of the second 
millennium and the bridge to the third. It is not a new message but can be considered a 
gift of special enlightenment that helps us to relive the Gospel of Easter more intensely, to 
offer it as a ray of light to the men and women of our time. What will the years ahead bring 
us? What will man’s future on earth be like? We are not given to know. However, it is 
certain that in addition to new progress there will unfortunately be no lack of painful 
experiences. But the light of divine mercy [splendor], which the Lord in a way wished to 
return to the world [dormant.... From long ago] through Sr. Faustina’s charism, will 
illumine the way for the men and women of the third millennium” (emphasis added). 
Even this final part of the prophecy was verified: “When this triumph comes, we shall already 
have entered the new life in which there is no suffering. But before this, your [spiritual 
director’s] soul will be surfeited with bitterness at the sight of the destruction of your efforts. 

... But God has promised a great grace especially to you and to all those [here she quotes 
Jesus’ words] . . . who will proclaim My great mercy. I shall protect them myself at the 
hour of death, as My own glory.” 

90 . The retreat in Vilnius, held from February 4 to February 12, 1935, was conducted 
by Father Macewicz, S.J. At the end of the retreat there was a mass in the Eastern Rite, and 
the sisters received Communion under both species. 

91 . Renewal of the vows. The constitutions of the Congregation of Our Lady of Mercy 
contained the provision that twice a year, after the eight-day and the three-day retreats, each 
sister should renew her vows of chastity, poverty and obedience, together with the fhole 
community, by reciting aloud a shortened formula, to which the following prayer was added: 
“My Lord, grant me the grace, to observe them more faithfully than I have up to now.” 

92 . Sister Faustina’s family lived in the village of Glogowiec, district of Turek, province 
of Lodz. 

93 . Sister Maria Salomea Olszakowska, who died in June 1962. 

94 . The image of The Divine Mercy, with two rays, a pale and a red one, painted by 
Eugene Kazimierowski in Vilnius. The picture was displayed for public veneration in the 
Dawn Gate at the conclusion of the Jubilee of the Redemption of the World, April 26-28, 

1935 (See Diary no. 419 and footnote 1). 

95 . Sister Faustina thought she was to leave the Congregation of Our Lady of Mercy 
and found a new community, whose task would be to spread the devotion to The Divine 
Mercy and pray for mercy for the world. 

96 . Sister Faustina wrote that the Lord Jesus was demanding from her the founding 
of a new community, whose aim would be to pray for Divine Mercy for the world and to 



415 




spread the devotion of The Divine Mercy. As she did not want to do anything on her own, 
Sister Faustina confided these inspirations to her confessor, Father Sopocko, to her Superior 
General, Mother Michael Moraczewska and, after coming to Cracow, also to Father J. 
Andrasz, S.J. 

The confessors were undecided; Mother Michael gave her permission after long 
hesitation, but stressed that she was taking no responsibility. Sister Faustina turned to 
Archbishop Romuald Jalbrzykowski with her inspirations. He did not refuse, but said it was 
necessary to wait for a clearer sign from heaven. 

Despite steady efforts, Sister Faustina did not live to see the new community founded. 
It was only owing to Father Sopocko’s efforts that the matter arose at a “Bible Hour” meeting 
in 1 941 ; and on October 1 5, 1 941 , the first candidate took the vow of chastity before Father 
Sopocko and pledged poverty and obedience. In the next year other candidates joined her 
and made similar vows and promises. In 1 946 the first candidates, Osinska and 
Naborowska, left Vilnius and settled at Mysliborz, in the Diocese of Gorzow. Others soon 
followed, and slowly the Congregation began to develop. 

On August 2, 1955, the ordinary of Gorzow, Zygmunt Szelazek, on the basis of special 
authorization, established the Congregation of the Most Holy Lord Jesus Christ, Merciful 
Redeemer, whose aim was to spread the cult of The Divine Mercy and to assist the Church 
hierarchy. In this way the wish of the Saint was fulfilled without her personal participation 
(See O. Izydor Borkiewicz, O.F.M.Con., “Kowalska Helena manuscript. P. 18). 

97 . Sister Faustina had in mind the founding of the new community and was asking 
St. Ignatius for help. 

98 . The three-day retreat on August 12-16, 1935, was conducted in Vilnius by Father 
Rzyczkowski, S.J., later provincial of the northern province of the Society, which had its 
headquarters in Warsaw. 

99 . The Archbishop of Vilnius at the time was The Rev. Romuald Jalbrzykowski 
(1876-1955). He was graduated from the seminary in Petersburg (1889-1902), and was 
ordained in 1 901 . He became professor at the seminary in Sejny and canon of the Sejny 
chapter. He was evacuated to Petersburg during World War I, and then moved to Minsk, 
where he conducted lively pastoral educational and social activities. After several years of 
wandering, he returned to Sejny in 1917. Consecrated bishop in 1918, he worked as an 
auxiliary in the Polish section of the diocese of Sejny. From 1921 he was the Apostolic 
Delegate, and in 1926 the first ordinary of the newly established diocese of Lomza. On the 
death of the Metropolitan of Vilnius, Archbishop Jan Cieplak, he assumed government of the 
Diocese of Vilnius on September 8, 1 926. On march 1 3, 1 940 he was arrested by the 
Germans and interned in the monastery of the Marian Fathers at Mariampol in Lithuania. He 
returned to Vilnius on August 5, 1944. In December of the same year, he was again arrested 
and imprisoned in Vilnius. After the end of World War II, he had to transfer to Bialystok, 
where he devoted all his energies to the organization of the Metropolitan Curia, appointing 
priests to the vacant parishes and dealing with many necessary matters. 

In this relationship with others, Archbishop Jalbrzykowski was simple, accessible, 
understanding and patient. But towards himself he was very exacting. He died in Bialystok 
on June 19, 1955. 



416 




100 . Father Sopocko placed this chaplet to The Divine Mercy, as found here in Sister 
Faustina’s Diary, on the back of a holy card (a copy of the painting by Kazimierowski in 
Vilnius) and had it published by the Cebulski Publishing House in Cracow (See Letters #75, 
87-90). 

101 . Father Sopocko, not sure of Sister Faustina’s inspirations regarding the establishing 
of a new community, wanted to refer the matter to one more priest for consideration, and for that 
reason he told Sister Faustina to give an account of all the commands she received to her 
former confessor, Father Andrasz, S.J., in Cracow. 

102 . The Congregation of Our Lady of Mercy has its own cemetery in Cracow, which 
is in the park, separated from the rest of it by a thick wall with a wide entrance gate. All the 
sisters and wards who die in Cracow are buried there. Sister Faustina was buried here too, 
and her body was in a tomb in the cemetery until the exhumation of her body on November 
25,1966. 

103 . Sister Vitalina Maslowska, born Dec. 4, 1852, died Jan. 6, 1939. 

104 . During monthly individual meetings with the superior, the sisters asked her for 
permission to say private prayers not included in the Congregation’s rules (cf. 72). 

105 . There is no custom in the Congregation of adding a cognomen to the religious 
name. But it is possible for a sister to make an addition to her name, depending on the 
devotion she has, as, for instance, Sister Faustina did, adding “of the Blessed Sacrament.” 

106 . In the sisters’ dining room (refectory) there was a bulletin board on which the 
superior put the names of the sisters who had some special duty for the given week. In this 
case, it was duty at the gate during community meals that was meant. 

107 . In the former Constitutions, the title “Mother” was reserved for the members of 
the General Council of the Congregation and all the house superiors. The wards also 
addressed their educators as “Mothers.” 

108 . The Postulancy is the first probation period in the Congregation. During this time 
the candidate gets to know better the Congregation of which she wishes to become a 
member, and the Congregation likewise gets to know her. 

109 . After the period of postulancy, the candidate makes an eight-day retreat. During 
the clothing ceremony she receives the religious habit and new name and begins her 
novitiate. This is a further stop to test whether the religious life is for the candidate; and at 
the same time, the candidate has the chance to better know the Congregation of which she is 
to become a member. 

In the Congregation of Our Lady of Mercy the novitiate lasts for two years. The first, 
known as the “canonical,” is dedicated to the deepening of the spiritual life and convent 
practices. During this time the novice cannot attend formal schooling, spend time in studies, 
or perform any absorbing tasks. 

During the second year of novitiate, the novices may, in addition to their religious 
practices, study or work under the direction of the professed sisters. 



417 




If, after this period, the Congregation and the novice are satisfied, the novices makes 
a profession of vows for one year, renewing them for the next five years annually. During 
this time, the professed sister may leave the Congregation or be dismissed. If all turns out 
positive, the professed sister is allowed to take perpetual vows (Const. Congr.). 

110 . In the Congregation of Our Lady of Mercy the sisters take simple vows. In the 
Congregation proposed by Sister Faustina, the sisters would take solemn vows. 

111. Office - a liturgical prayer of the Church consisting of psalms and versicles. All 
sisters have an obligation to say the Office. 

112. By the enclosure, or cloister, is meant a certain section of the convent restricted 
to members of the Congregation only. 

113. For every religious house, the local Ordinary appointed a regular confessor to 
whom every sister should go to confession. According to a provision of Canon Law, the local 
Ordinary should also appoint an extraordinary confessor for every house. His duty was to 
visit the house at least four times a year to hear confessions. All sisters had to see him, if not 
to confess, then at least to receive a blessing. 

114 . The Saint had a vision of the future community’s house. It was in Vilnius, at 12 
St. Anna Street, and it was in complete ruin. Father Sopocko had the house restored with his 
own money and intended eventually to place the new community in it. The war interrupted 
the realization of these plans (See letter of Fr. Sopocko March 31, 1972). 

115. “In the dust” - a figurative expression of the Saint for the way she responded to 
her feeling of guilt. 

116. Pinafore, or apron, could mean several things. For children it was a substitute 
for a shirt, and Sister Faustina had this in mind. 

117. Sister Faustina probably saw the house of the Congregation of the Most Merciful 
Redeemer at Mysliborz. 

118 . Probably Father Ladislaus Wantuchowski, S.J., who looked after the 
Congregation of the Most Merciful Redeemer for ten years while Father Sopocko was in 
hiding. 



119. A lash, whip, or similar instrument for the infliction of pain, used by religious as a 
means of doing penance. 

120 . Probably the fasts on Ash Wednesday and Good Friday. 

121 . The church in Poland accepted the practice that in each quarter of the year, 
three days - Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday, called “Ember days” - were set aside for 
fasting and penitence, and special prayers were said for priests and for vocations to the 
priesthood and religious life. 

122 . At that time fasting was obligatory on the eve of the following feasts: Pentecost, 
Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary, and All Saints. 



418 




123 . Some communities, including the Congregation of Our Lady of Mercy, by solemn 
act elected the Mother of God as their Superior General, and entrusted to her all matters of 
this and future life. The act took place on August 5, 1937, at the General House in Warsaw, 
with all the superiors participating. Then the act was repeated in all the houses on August 
15, 1937, with the participation of all the sisters of the Congregation. 

124 . The priest was Father Sopocko, who writes this in his memoirs of Sister 
Faustina: “. . . .my troubles reached their peak in January 1 936. I never mentioned them to 
anyone, and it was only on the critical day that I asked Sister Faustina for prayer. To my 
great surprise, all my troubles vanished into thin air on that very day, and Sister Faustina told 
me she had taken all my suffering upon herself and experienced so much suffering on that 
day as she never had before” (A. SF. Recol.). 

125 . Te Deum, a hymn of thanksgiving, sung during all major feast days and 
thanksgiving devotions. Religious congregations pray it during Matins. The origin of the 
hymn is ascribed to St. Ambrose, which explains why it was offer called the “Ambrosian 
Hymn.” 



1 26 . Probably Sister Veronica Rapisz. Born March 18,1 853, she entered the 
Congregation on December 1 6, 1 881 . She had spent all her life as a religious working in the 
garden. In her last years she devoted very much time to prayer. She died in Vilnius on 
January 28, 1 936 (A. SMDM-C and D). 

127 . “The whole Congregation” probably means all the sisters of the house, in this 
case, of the Vilnius house. 

128 . Probably Father Anthony Korcik, chaplain of the Congregation’s house in Vilnius 
from August 10, 1934 until 1940. Father Korcik was born about 1892 and ordained priest in 

1 920 for the diocese of Luck and Zytomierz. He graduated from the School of Theology of 
the Warsaw University, specializing in philosophy. From 1929 he lectured on the history of 
philosophy at the University of Vilnius. After the war he went to Lublin, where he taught logic 
at the School of Theology and Philosophy at the Catholic university of Lublin. He died in 
Lublin on October 24, 1969. 

1 29 . This vision is mentioned by Father Sopocko in his letter of March 31 , 1 972. 

130 . As in other houses, at the Vilnius house the sisters had an institution for girls. 
The wards sometimes participated in adoration with the sisters to atone for their own sins 
and for the sins of others. 

131 . It was probably Sister Antonina Grejwul, who writes in her memories of Sister 
Faustina as follows: “After confessions I was worried and doubting whether the Lord Jesus 
had forgiven me. Weeping, I asked Sister Faustina for prayer. Next morning she said, 
“Sister, you have grace with Jesus, because He answered at once that He was not angry 
with you for your sins, but was hurt by your distrust in His forgiveness. I will pray to propitiate 
Him for you’” 

Sister Antonina Grejwul, born Sept. 1 3, 1 877, entered the Congregation in Vilnius on 
June 29, 1 909. She stayed in Vilnius until the closing of the house in 1 945. During World 
War II, in 1939, she was imprisoned in the Lukiszki prison in Vilnius together with the other 



419 




sisters. As a Latvian she was freed after a while. After the sisters had left Vilnius she was 
sent to the Congregation’s house at Biala near Plock, where she died on January 22, 1960 
(A. SMDM-C and D). 

132 . One can assume that it was Sister Petronela Basiura, who worked in the garden 
before Sister Faustina’s assignment to Vilnius, and because she was stronger was given the 
duty to raise the cattle. She died March 5, 1959, in Czestochowa (A. SMDM-C and D). 

133 . It was probably Sister Regina Jaworska, who knew St. Faustina from novitiate 
days. Sister Regina - Valeria Jaworska was born November 28, 1 905. She entered the 
Congregation in 1926 and made her perpetual vows October 30, 1933. She was a witness 
during the information process of the Servant of God. 

134 . Most probably the regular confessor of the sisters in Walendow, Father Ceslaus 
Maliszewski. 

135 . Letter of Father Sopocko, written in Vilnius July 10, 1936 (see Letter #49). 

136 . Probably Father Sopocko’s pamphlet called Milosierdzie Boze (Studium 
teologiczne-praktyczne) [The Divine Mercy (A Theological - Practical Study)], published in 
Vilnius in 1936. Imprimatur was given by Bishop Romuald on June 30, 1936, No. R. 298/36 
(A. SF.). The cover of the pamphlet showed a color copy of Eugene Kasimierowski’s image 
painted in Vilnius. 

137 . Dr. Adam Silberg, from the sanatorium at Pradnik. Dr. Silberg, a convert, was 
about 40 years old them. In the years 1937-1939 (until the outbreak of the war) he was the 
director of City Sanatoriums (Polish Miejskie Zakiady Sanitarne) at Pradnik Bialy in Cracow, 
popularly known as Sanatorium (now a special city hospital named Dr. Anka Hospital). He 
lived on the premises of the hospital together with his wife and son Kazimierz. It is not sure 
what happened to him after the outbreak of the war. According to the account of Mr. Ludwik 
Spytkowski, retired janitor at the hospital, Dr. Silberg tried to make his way to the east, 
together with his wife, and was shot by the Germans near Lwow. Another version, given by 
Dr. Adamczewski, a radiologist at the hospital, says that Dr. Silberg made his way to France 
with a group of doctors, then went to Scotland and died there during the war. 

138 . Probably Sister Fabiola, who had tuberculosis and therefore was in the infirmary. 
Sister Fabiola Pawluk, born in 1912, entered the Congregation on April 16, 1934. She died 
in Czestochowa on November 25, 1947 (A. SMDM-C). 

139 . The Feast of The Divine Mercy - as the Saint stated - according to Jesus’ wish 
was to be celebrated on the first Sunday after Easter (See Diary par. 49, 88, 280, 299, 420, 
570, 699, 742). 

140 . The cook, Sister Bronislaus - Julianna Jaworska, born in 1 886, entered the 
Congregation in 1 908. She died on February 11,1 972. 

141 . The doctor at the Pradnik sanatorium confirmed that Sister Faustina had 
tuberculosis of the lungs. He ordered her to be separated from the others to prevent 
infection. Sister Faustina was put in the room for the seriously ill, called the infirmary. 



420 




142 . Father Sopocko, in his letter of Oct. 5, 1936, asked Sister Faustina for the texts 
of the Chaplet and the Novena to The Divine Mercy. 

143 . The following sisters came to take their perpetual vows then: Sister Boleslaus 
Domagalska, b. 1902; Sister Cyprian Rzad, b. 1903; Sister Damiana Ziolek, b. 1909; Sister 
Marceline Kobrzyniecka, b. 1906; Sister Pancratia Nalewajko, b 1908; Sister Sebastiana 
Gabinowska (1 905-1 942). It is difficult to say which of the sisters confided to Sister Faustina, 
but it can be supposed it was Sister Sebastiana Gabinowska, who often went through 
periods of depression. She even asked her superiors to postpone the date of her perpetual 
vows. Soon after perpetual profession she showed symptoms of mental illness. She was 
sent to the mental hospital al Kobierzyn near Cracow. She shared the fate of other patients 
during the occupation: they were taken away and executed by the Germans. The death took 
place probably at the end of June 1942 (A. SMDM-C and D). 

144 . In this case the preacher was Father Ladislaus Wojton, S.J., who from October 
20 to 29, 1936 conducted the retreat before the vows. 

145 Probably Sister Gertrude Budzinska (1 875-1 966), who shared a room with Sister 
Faustina for some time. 

146 . After novitiate the sisters take temporary vows for one year. These are repeated 
for five years. Then perpetual vows are taken. Sister Faustina took her temporary vows 
(which she calls annual vows) on April 30, 1928. 

147 . This was a letter written on September 21 , 1 936, in which Father Sopocko 
informed Sister Faustina about the developments regarding the spreading of the devotion to 
The Divine Mercy and the founding of the new community. 

148 . Probably a vision of the house of the Congregation of the Most Merciful 
Redeemer at Mysliborz, The community was founded by Father Sopocko after Sister 
Faustina’s death. The Mysliborz sisters conduct the catechesis of children. 

149 . Sister Faustina probably made a mistake about her age here; as she herself 
writes in the Diary, she received the grace in the Octave of Corpus Christi in 1925. As she 
was born in 1905, she was 20, not 18 in 1925. 

150 . Sister David - Antonina Cedro. She was born September 17, 1898, and entered 
the Congregation of servants of the Sacred Heart (Polish Sercankior Pelczarki), founded by 
Bishop Joseph Pelczar in 1894. Sisters from the Congregation worked at the Pradnik 
hospital. 

151 . Sister Felicia- Jane Zakowiecka. Born in 1900, she entered the Congregation 
in 1926 and made perpetual vows in 1934. She was the house econom at Vilnius and 
Cracow, and then became house superior at Rabka, and finally at Derdy. She met with the 
Saint at Vilnius and later, from 1936 to 1938, in Cracow. She was a witness at the 
information process of Sister Faustina. She died at the Wroclaw house on November 7, 

1975. 



421 




152 . The Congregation’s house in Cracow was about 10 km from Pradnik, where 
Sister Faustina was staying. In those days, a trip to the sanatorium required much time and 
trouble, and this is why Sister Faustina was not visited very often. 

153 . This refers to the sufferings and humiliations experienced by Father Sopocko in 
his efforts to spread the cult of The Divine Mercy and to found a new community. Sister 
Faustina received inner knowledge of these sufferings and wrote about it in a letter to Father 
Sopocko (Letter of March 6, 1972). 

154 . Sister Chrysostom - Mary Korczak. Born in 1892, she entered the Congregation 
in 1 921 . She worked as a group instructor and as a nurse. She came in contact with Sister 
Faustina in Vilnius, and then during Sister Faustina’s last illness in Cracow. She was 
appointed to be a witness at the information process for reasons of her office. 

1 55 . Sister Cajetan - Mary Bartkowiak. Born January 19, 1911, she entered the 
Congregation in 1933. She was with Sister Faustina in Warsaw and in Cracow. She was a 
witness at the information process in 1965/66. 

156 . After Christmas, Sister Faustina was taken back to the hospital at Pradnik by 
Sister Damiana Ziolek, who gives the following account of the circumstances of the trip: “At 
night a little baby was left by the convent gate. In the morning Sister Frances found it, took 
care of it, washed and fed it, and started to look for someone to look after the baby. A 
neighbor who had no children of her own and wanted a foster child learned about it. She 
readily accepted the Congregation’s offer, took in the foundling and agreed to give it her 
name. The cab which was taking Sister Faustina to Pradnik gave the woman a lift to the 
parish church in Podgorze, where the child was baptized and the fact recorded in the books.” 

Sister Damiana - Sophia Ziolek was born on October 18, 1911. She entered the 
Congregation in 1927. She came in contact with Sister Faustina in Plock in 1932 and then in 
Cracow. She was a witness at the information process. 

157 . St. Joseph Church in Podgorze. Rev. Joseph Niemczynski was the pastor at the 

time. 

158 . Sister Damiana Ziolek. 

159 . Probably Sister Alana - Caroline Wilusz, of the Congregation of Servants of the 
Sacred Heart. She suffered from consumption and had a room near Sister Faustina’s. She 
was born in 1910 and entered her Congregation in 1929. 

160 . The Saint recalls the date of January 2, 1934, when she had first visited the 
painter Eugene Kazimierowski to give him directions concerning the painting of the image of 
The Divine Mercy. 

161 . The superior of the Servants of the Sacred Heart at the Pradnik hospital was 
Sister Sebastian - Helen Wasik (1889-1952). 

162 . Probably Father Andrasz, but it may also have been Father Theodore Czaputa, 
who visited Sister Faustina in the hospital and heard her confessions. 



422 




163 . Probably Stanislava Kwietniewska, former ward of the sisters and a patient at 
the sanatorium at the time. 

164 . Sister Faustina was in Tuberculosis Ward 1 , which was about 70 steps from the 
chapel. 

165 . Stanislava Kwietniewska (cf. 163). 

166 . Sister Faustina is probably praying for the intentions of Archbishop 
Jalbrzykowski, Father Sopocko, and Father Andrasz. 

167 . A Eucharistic Congress was held from February 3 to 7 in Manila in the 
Philippines. 

168 . Father Andrasz was Sister Faustina’s spiritual director at the time, so it can be 
supposed that the letter concerning permission for minor penitential practices was written to 
him. 



169 . Probably Sister Faustina has Father Andrasz in mind, as he was her spiritual 
director at the time, although the words of praise could also refer to Father Sopocko. 

170 . “Passion” (Polish Pasja) - a Lenten service to give worship to Christ’s Passion. 
Special Lenten songs Gorzkie Zale are sung during the service. 

171 . On the basis of the invocations that follow, Father Sopocko composed a Litany 
to The Divine Mercy, correcting a few invocations and adding some of his own (See letter of 
Fr. Sopocko, May 14, 1972). 

172 . As Sister Faustina’s spiritual director, Father Sopocko had ordered her to 
carefully underline in her diary everything that she thought came from God, and in particular 
everything that related to the institution of the Feast of Mercy and the establishment of the 
new community. 

173 . Sister Cornelia Trzaska died at Plock on February 15. She was born in 1888, 
entered the community in 1905, and worked in the Congregation as a shoemaker. 

174 . Father Bonaventure Kadeja of the Piarist Order, Cracow, Pijarska Street. He 
was born in 1906, ordained priest in 1932. In the religious life he had the duties of House 
Superior, Counselor General, and Provincial. In 1965/66 he was a judge in the information 
process. 

175 . Cf. footnote 65 and Sister Faustina’s letter to her sisters Natalie and Wanda of 
June 10, 1938 (Letter #296, 297). 

176 . Probably a prediction that was fulfilled under the German occupation, when 
many priests secretly celebrated the Eucharist in private homes and basements, without 
liturgical vestments, and even in concentration camps, wearing prison clothes. 



423 




177 . Sister Faustina, while making her monthly day of recollection, took advantage of 
the conferences with Father Bonaventure Kadeja was giving during a retreat for the 
sanatorium personnel. 

178 . The word “confessors” seems to indicate that the Saint was told to write the 
Diary not only by Father Sopocko, but also by Father Andrasz. 

179 . Sister Faustina’s spiritual director, Father Michael Sopocko, remembered her 
special gifts: visions, illuminations, enlightenments, hearing inner voices, etc. She is 
referring to one of these gifts here; i.e., interior knowledge of events touching people related 
to her. (See A. SF. Father Sopocko’s letter of March 7, 1972). 

180 . At the first profession of temporary vows the sisters received a black veil, a little 
cross, a rosary and a belt. It is this cross that Sister Faustina meant. 

181 . The Feast of The Divine Mercy, on the first Sunday after Easter. 

182 . The chapel of the Congregation was open only to the sisters and wards at the 
time. It was only during the German occupation that it was opened to the public. 

183 . The vision most likely refers to the investigations of the writings of Sister 
Faustina and the mistaken interpretation of them. 

184 . Polish ciemnica, literally “dark cell,” denotes both the altar of Maundy Thursday 
liturgy (repository) and the prison in which Jesus spent the night of His Passion. 

185 . Probably fragments of the liturgy of the Holy Week. 

186 . Father Theodore Czaputa, as the Congregation’s chaplain, delivered a sermon 
in the chapel every Sunday. 

187 . The Directress of Novitiate at the time was Sister Callista - Helen Piekarczyk. 
Born March 30, 1900, she entered the Congregation in 1920. She succeeded Sister Mary 
Joseph Brzoza as directress on December 10, 1934, and continued until September 8, 1945. 
She died on September 1 1 , 1947 (A. SMDM-C). 

188 . Father Sopocko’s article in The Divine Mercy published in the Vilnius Catholic 
Weekly {tygodnik Katolicki, nasz przyjaciel) on April 4, 1937, No. 14. 

189 . In the Cracow house, the chaplain, Father Theodore Czaputa, had weekly 
lectures to the sisters on ascetical subjects. These were familiarly called “Catechism.” Sister 
Faustina probably is referring to one of these. 

190 . Every year, besides the eight-day retreat, the sisters have a three-day retreat. 

191 . An eight-day retreat was being held in the house, preceding the profession of 
vows and taking of the veil (April 20-29). It was conducted by Father Plaza, S.J., Superior of 
the house provincial at 8 Maly Rynek, Cracow (A. SMDM-C). 



424 




192 . We do not know to what talks the vision refers. But we know that Father 
Sopocko sent a memorial on The Divine Mercy to the participants of the First Plenary Synod, 
which was held at Czestochowa on August 26-27, 1936. The Pope’s delegate, Msgr. 
Marmaggi presided at the Synod. He probably mentioned the matter of promulgating a Feast 
of The Divine Mercy in his report of the Synod to the Holy See. That may have caused 
disputes. We have reason to suppose that the report drew the interest of Eugene Cardinal 
Pacelli, Secretary of State (and later, Pope Pius XII). But it is difficult to say what the work 
could have been. The fact that the notification banning the devotion was not issued by the 
Holy Office until after his death (November 28, 1958) suggests that Cardinal Pacelli’s attitude 
toward the devotion to The Divine Mercy was a favorable one. 

193 . The Ceremonies of Clothing, Temporal and Final Professions took place in the 
Congregation twice a year at that time: in the spring on the last day of April or first of May, 
and in the fall on October 30. 

194 . Only the Holy See has the right to release one from perpetual vows. 

195 . These words of the Lord Jesus to the Saint attest that, despite the requests to 
found a new congregation, she is to remain in the Congregation of Our Lady of Mercy. The 
dialog of the Saint with the Lord jesus, cited on another page of the Diary (see Diary par. 
1649), wherein Sister Faustina complains to the Lord Jesus that her Congregation has no 
saint and received the reply: you will be that saint, likewise proves this. It is a fact that Sister 
Faustina remained in the Congregation of Our Lady of Mercy until her death, and in 
reference to the new congregation only gave standing guidelines. 

196 . The Corpus Christi procession to the four altars. The procession started from 
the parish church at Borek Falecki and ended at the fourth altar, which was in the 
Congregation’s garden. The Blessed Sacrament then remained in the sisters’ chapel. 

197 . The sisters’ procession was always on the Octave of Corpus Christi. The altars 
were set up and decorated in the garden. 

198 . Cf. Isidore Borkiewicz, “O stosunku siostry Faustyny do Zgromadzenia 
Najmilosierniejszego Odkupiciela” (“Sister Faustina’s Connection with the Congregation of 
the Most Merciful Reedemer”), p. 25. 

199 . Sister Jolanta, a group instructor in the Vilnius house, was attending a course in 
pedagogy in Cracow at the time (from July 3, 1 937). Sister Jolanta - Aleksandra Wozniak 
was born in 1909. She entered the Congregation in 1929. She was a group instructor, and 
then superior at the Radom, Czestochowa, and Cracow houses. 

200 . The patron saints of the Congregation of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy: 

Our Lady of Mercy August 5 

St. Ignatius of Loyola July 31 

St. Joseph March 19 

St. Michael the Archangel September 29 

St. Mary Magdalene July 22 

St. Teresa of Jesus October 15 

St. Anthony of Padua June 13 



425 




201 . Many articles appeared in the polish Catholic press at the time on the 
ungratefulness of the Polish nation to God and to the Church. 

202 . A place in the Carpathian hills, where the Congregation has a small vacation 
house for sisters and girls. 

203 Probably Sister Helen, who was the superior of the Rabka house. Sister Helen - 
Mary Urbanska, born in 1884, entered the Congregation in 1908. She was a nurse and in 
1932 took over management of the newly acquired house at Rabka. She died at Rabka on 
August 6, 1940. 

204 . “Remember” - a prayer to St. Joseph said daily by the whole Congregation. 

205 . Perhaps one of the Benedictine Fathers, Kazimierz Ratkiewicz (1 906-1 965), who 
was a friend of the sisters in Rabka. The first group of Benedictines arrived in Poland in 
1936 and settled in the “Jaworzyna” villa in Rabka, not far from the hourse of the 
Congregation of Our Lady of Mercy called “Loretto.” The Fathers regularly said Masses 
there, and Father Ratkiewicz busied himself with hearing the sisters’ confessions. He was 
great friends with “Loretto,” and it is very likely that it was he who heard Sister Faustina’s 
confession. 

206 . The novena which is in the Diary was published, with some changes, in a 
pamphlet called Chrystus Krol Milosierdzia ( Christ King of Mercy) in 1 937, by the J. Cebulski 
Press, Cracow. The cover had a colored picture representing the Merciful Christ with the 
rays and the inscription “Jezu, ufam Tobie” (“Jesus, I trust in You”). Thecontents included 
the Novena to The Divine Mercy, the Litany and the Chaplet. 

The superior of the Cracow house, Mother Irene Krzyzanowska, sent out the leaflet to 
the other houses of the Congregation. The sisters said the prayers privately, but did not 
know their origin. 

207 . According to the Congregation’s custom, the parlor was entered by the superiors 
or by sisters appointed for that function. Other sisters could go to their guests only by 
permission of the superior of the house. 

208 . Reference is to the imprimatur of two publications: 1 . An image of Jesus with 
the Chaplet to The Divine Mercy on the back, for which Fr. Sopocko obtained permission in 
Vilnius on Sept. 1 , 1937 (No. R. 200/ 37); 2. A small pamphlet under the title Chrystus Krol 
Milosierdzia (Christ King of Mercy), which included the novena, the chaplet and the litany to 
The Divine Mercy. The imprimatur was granted by the Metropolitan Curia in Cracow (L. 
671/37). Both were published by the J. Cebulski Publishing House, 22 Szewska St., Cracow. 

209 . It is likely that the writer mistakenly recorded August instead of September. 

210 . Sister Faustina calls the gate a “desert” because the gatekeeper remained 
separated from the rest of the Congregation during most of the day. 



426 




211 . The Saint had two brothers, Stanley and Mecislaus. It later becomes clear that it 
was Stanley who visited her. He was born at Glogowiec on March 26, 191 2. Later he lived 
in Lodz working as a joiner, a cabinet maker and an organist. 

21 2. Poslaniec Serca Jezusowego (Messenger of the Sacred Heart), a monthly 
magazine devoted to the devotion of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, and published by the Jesuit 
Fathers at the Wydawnictwo Apostolstwa Modlitwy House, 26 Kopernik Street, Cracow. 

21 3. Probably at the shop of Cebulski, where devotional articles were sold. 

214. A copy of Eugene Kazimirowski’s image of Jesus, made ineptly by a Miss 
Balzukiewicz in Vilnius for the Redemptorist Fathers. It later appeared in Cracow. 

21 5. Every sister is obliged to participate once a year in an eight-day retreat (so- 
called “big” retreat, as opposed to the three-day retreat). In the Cracow house the professed 
sisters took advantage of the retreats given before the ceremonies of taking the veil and 
professing the vows. In 1937 the retreat was held from October 20 to 29, and was conducted 
by Father Nitka, S.J. This was Sister Faustina’s last retreat together with the sisters. 

216. There was a custom in the Congregation of keeping written records of one’s 
interior victories and falls. 

21 7. The taking of the veil and the vows. 

218. The cross was probably the illnesses of sisters and of the superior herself. 

There was a long-drawn flu epidemic in the house and, in addition, the following sisters were 
seriously ill: Sister Clemens Buczek, head gardener, down with gastric ulcers; Sister Virginia 
Narkiewicz, taken to the hospital because of serious heart trouble brought on by rheumatism; 
Sister Dominic Szymanska, seriously ill, died on November 15, 1937. 

219. Sister Dominic - Josephine Szymanska. Born November 28, 1875, she entered 
the Congregation in 1897. She worked in the Cracow house for 30 years, as a shoemaker, 
and became so expert in her job that she trained younger sisters. She died on November 1 5, 
1937. 



220. Sister Damiana Ziolek, who wanted to choose Bishop S. Rospond to be her 
confessor. 

221 . This is a quotation from the Roman Martyrology, which was read in the refectory 
after the prayer before meals. 

222. Pasterka is the Mass at midnight, December 24 to 25. According to the 
Congregation’s custom, the sisters went to bed after the Christmas Eve supper. Those who 
wanted to pray in the chapel until midnight asked for permission to do so. 

223. The Saint most probably had an inner knowledge as to the time of her death. 
She knew that this would be the final year of her life. 



427 




224. At the end of the year the sisters take part in a service of thanksgiving for the 
graces received, during which the Te Deum is sung. Usually all the sisters participate in the 
service. 

225. The chaplain takes Holy Communion to the sisters who could not take part in the 
community Mass on account of illness. Those less ill walk to the infirmary at the moment of 
Communion so as not to trouble the chaplain with visiting every cell. 

226. Father Matzanger, S.J., temporarily substituting for the chaplain, Father 
Theodore Czaputa, who left for a few days to visit his brother, also a priest. 

227. Sister Faustina’s vision regarding Mother Irene Krzyzanowska came true in so 
far that Mother Krzyzanowska was a witness at the information process and was probably 
questioned about Sister Faustina and her writings. Mother Mary Joseph Brzoza, however, 
died on November 9, 1939, and we do not know whether anyone asked her about Sister 
Faustina. 

228. Probably Sister Gertrude, who was sharing a small room called separatka 
(isolation ward) with Sister Faustina at the time. 

Sister Gertrude Budzinska, born 1876, entered the Congregation in 1895. She died in 
Cracow on August 11,1 966. 

229. Probably Sister Liguoria Poznanska, the sacristan and an expert on handiwork, 
came to teach Sister Gertrude how to make borders for altar linens. 

Sister Liguoria Poznanska, born January 15, 1880, entered the Congregation on 
December 4, 1 91 9. She was sacristan almost all her life as a religious. In 1 953 she was 
appointed assistant to the house superior in Cracow. She died in Cracow on May 2, 1960. 

230. It could be that at this particular time the Saint was given to know the day of her 

death. 



231 No date is given, but it can be supposed that the vision occurred between 
January 8 and 15, 1938. 

232. Sister Faustina was very sensitive to the division into choirs. In this case, Sister 
Seraphina certainly was not guided by the division, but seeing Sister Faustina already wet, 
she thought it would be easier for Sister Faustina to go to the gate than for another sister to 
get wet, too. In giving the order she obviously did not know Sister Faustina was unwell, or 
else she would have done otherwise. Sister Seraphina was a good and pious sister. She 
was never known to make any differences among the sisters. 

233. It was the custom in the Congregation to pray for the dying person the prayer, “O 
most kind Jesus....” And Psalm 129 “Out of the depths.” 

234. Sister Faustina’s superiors during her lifetime as a religious: 

M. Margaret Gimbutt - beginning of novitiate and third probation before perpetual 

vows; 



428 




M. Raphael Buczynska - in Cracow and Warsaw; 

M. Rose Klobukowska- in Piock; 

M. Xavier Olszamowska - in Kiekrz; 

M. Borgia Tichy - in Vilnius; 

M. Seraphina Kikulska - in Walendow. 

Sister Xavier - Jane Olszamowska, born 1883, entered the Congregation in 1912. 

She was superior in Kiekrz and in Warsaw, and then was secretary general. She died on 
March 11,1 970, in Cracow. 

235. Cf. Bishop Zbigniew Kraszewski, “Udzial Matki Bozej w Dziele Odkupienia” 

(“The Role of the Mother of God in the Work of Redemption’) in Gratia Plena, Poznan, 1965. 

236. Probably Father M. Sopocko, because he was chiefly active in spreading the 
devotion of The Divine Mercy and in efforts to found the new community; but Sister Faustina 
may also have had in mind Father Andrasz or Mother Irene Krzyzanowska, because they, 
too, made efforts to spread the devotion of The Divine Mercy. 

237. Father Theodore Czaputa was the confessor of the novitiate. Some of the 
professed sisters also made their confession to him. The Saint’s spiritual director was Father 
Andrasz. Sister Faustina is careful to make the distinction. 

238. Sister Tarcisia - Casimira Piotrowicz. Born in 1 891 , she entered the 
Congregation in 1 912. For a short time she was a nurse in the Cracow house. 

239. Probably Sister Amelia, who was Sister Faustina’s close friend. 

240. Carnival - a time of revelry and merrymaking before the Lenten Season. 

241. A doctor called in to see the sick sisters. It is hard to say which one. A Dr. 

Stoch came frequently. 

242. Probably Dr. Silberg, who knew Sister Faustina’s condition. 

243. To the hospital for contagious diseases at Pradnik near Cracow, known as the 
“sanatorium.” 

244. There is a corridor leading from the house to the choir loft of the chapel. Sister 
Faustina was in the choir loft and so attended Mass, but she was not strong enough to go 
down and take part in the procession with the palms. 

245. Father Zukowicz, S.J., who was celebrating Mass that day. Fie was assistant to 
the provincial for very many years. Fie was a close friend of the Congregation of Our Lady of 
Mercy. As a great benefactor of their apostolic work, he often visited the girls and brought 
them small gifts. 

246. Sister Casimir - Irene Twarowska. Born 1911, she entered the Congregation in 
1 933. She worked as a group instructor and then as the head of the home for girls. She 
died in Cracow on April 1 8, 1 969. 

247. The following sisters had been in the novitiate with Sister Faustina: 



429 




Senior novices: Sister Alice Dabrowska, Sister Cherubim Kowieska, Sister Ernest 
Szczyrba, Sister Yvonne Goebel, Sister Joachim Glue, Sister Kinga, Sister Crescentia 
Bogdanik, Sister Laurenta Kosinska, Sister Longina Suchomska, Sister Lucine, Sister Natalie 
Fiszer, Sister Placida Putyra, Sister Renata Jodlowska, Sister Simon Nalewajko, Sister 
Valentina Leszczynska. 

Junior novices: Sister Anunciata Peraj, Sister Bernarda Wilczek, Sister Celine 
Bronikowska, Sister Felicia Zakowiecka, Sister Justine Golofit, Sister Clementine Glue, Sister 
Louise Gadzina, Sister Martina, Sister Regina Jaworska, Sister Severina Marciniak, Sister 
Teresita, Sister Zenobia Saja. 

Sisters who were clothed together with Sr. Faustina: Sister Bernadette 
Federowicz, Sister Bonaventure Edelmann-Glowacka (d. Dec. 17, 1936), Sister Florentine 
Pajak (d. Jan. 2, 1950), Sister Henry Skulimowska (d. Oct. 20, 1974). 

Sisters who corresponded with Sr. Faustina: Sister Justine Golofit, Sister Louise 
Gadzina, Sister Regina Jaworska; perhaps there were others, but at present they are 
unknown. 

248. Sisters of the Congregation of Servants of the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus, who 
worked at the hospital at Pradnik. The Congregation had been founded in Cracow in 1894 
by Bishop Leiczar. 

249. Sister David Cedro; Sister Alana - Caroline Wilusz, born July 20, 1910; Sister 
Medarda - Caroline Podrazik, born June 16, 1910, died 1966. 

250 Similar incidents can be found in the lives of saints; for example, St. Stanislaus 
Kostka and St. Bonaventure. 

251 Low Sunday. The Sunday mentioned by Sister Faustina was the first Sunday 
after Easter; that is, the day that was to be the Feast of The Divine Mercy. 

252. Probably a reference to the flu epidemic which had begun in February and 
continued for several months. As many as 22 sisters were down on some days. 

253. It is difficult to establish the date. Sister Faustina no longer dates anything but 
merely writes, “today.” At any rate, this was after Pentecost; that is, after June 5. 

254. It can be supposed that sister Faustina had the vision of the Heart of Jesus on 
the Friday after the Octave of Corpus Christi; i.e., on June 24, 1938. 

255. Many souls have attained heroic sanctity, and so were saved, never having 
celebrated the Feast of Divine Mercy. Then, too, according to His revelations to Sr. Faustina, 
Jesus offers to sinners another extraordinary means as a “last hope of salvation,” namely the 
Divine Mercy Chaplet (cf. Diary, 687). The statement made by Our Lord here (965) 
regarding the Feast of Mercy, therefore, must be seen within the context of the remainder of 
this passage: “If they will not adore My mercy, they will perish for all eternity,” as well as in 
the light of the statements declared on later occasions: “I give [souls] the last hope of 
salvation, that is, recourse to My Mercy” (998); and “For them [lukewarm, indifferent souls] 
the last hope of salvation is to flee to My mercy” (1228). We see that the immediate and 
solely adequate response to God’s mercy on the part of human beings is trust. The attitude 
of trust is the only means of coming to mercy (cf. 1 578) and so, of finding refuge in it. Jesus 



430 




calls it the “last hope of salvation” for the human soul - literally the “plank or (sheet) anchor,” 
the last refuge for safety (cf. Webster). 

The Feast of Mercy, therefore, must be seen in this context as an occasion serving as 
a powerful enticement for sinners to take hold of the promises which Jesus holds out to them 
in connection with its celebration, motivating [enducing] them to trust that He will be true to 
them. Expressing that trust, by fulfilling the conditions Jesus gave for receiving on that day 
[Mercy Sunday] the total forgiveness of sins and punishment as though a “second baptism,” 
will truly be for some souls the last opportunity to be reconciled with God, allowing Him to 
present them to Himself radiant, “without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and 
blameless” (Ephesians 5:27), and so, saved “for all eternity.” 



431 




Index 



CHAPLET 

Assistance to the dying, 81 0, 81 1 , 1 035, 1 565, 1 798 

Brings mankind closer to Jesus, 929 

Conversion and, 687 

Everything obtainable by, 1128, 1541 

Formula for, 476 

Mercy and, 848 

Novena before Feast of Mercy, 796, 1059 
To obtain mercy for Poland, 714 
Origin of, 474 

CONFESSION 

(See SACRAMENT OF RECONCILIATION) 

DEEDS OF MERCY 

Faustina and, 280, 1312, 1694, 1695 
Prayer for help to perform, 1 63, 1 242 
Ways to carry out, 742, 1 1 56, 1 1 57, 1 1 58, 1316,1317 
DIVINE MERCY 

Abyss filled by, 1576 
Accessible in confession, 1448 

Book written in Blood contains names of souls that glorify, 689 
Chaplet, a powerful means to obtain, 848 
Chastisement and, 1588 
Condemns no one, 1452 

Confirmed in every work of God, culminating in sinners’ forgiveness, 723 

Defense of souls, 1516 

Everything that exists is enclosed in, 1076 

Faustina and, 

messages from Jesus about, 1074 
“Secretary” of, 965, 1160, 1275, 1605, 1784 
to make known, 635 
to proclaim incessantly, 1521 
to proclaim to whole world, 1 1 42 
to tell priests about, 177 
to write and speak of, 1 448 
to write for tormented souls about, 1 1 46 
Foremost attribute of God, 180 

Highlighted in Faustina’s experience of the presence of the Blessed Trinity, 1073 

Inexhaustible, 1273 

Jesus, Love and Mercy Itself, 1074 

Language inadequate to express, 359 

“Last hope of salvation,” 998 

Litany in praise of, 949 

Many souls glorifying, 1073 

Misery not a match for, 1 273 

Passes into souls as sun through crystal, 528 

Poured out from Heart of Jesus through heart of Faustina, 1 777 



432 




Prayer for, 1570 

Priests and, 1521 

Recitation of chaplet and, 687 

Sacrament of Reconciliation (Confession) and, 975, 1602 
Sinners and, 1146, 1728, 1777 
contrite souls and, 1739 
most in need of, 1275, 1397 
Souls who appeal to, 1 1 46 
Souls to mirror, 1148 

Time of Mercy to precede Time of Judgment, 83 
Tribunal of, 1448 



EUCHARIST 

Condition for receiving mercy and forgiveness, 699, 1108 
Infrequent reception, 1447 
Rays from 

Eucharist, 344, 370, 420, 657 
Image piercing Sacred host, 441 
Symbolized by the Rays of the Image, 299 
Visits to Blessed Sacrament urged, 1572 

FEAST OF MERCY 

Clarification by Jesus of, 341 

Command to celebrate, 280 

Complete remission of sins and punishment on, 300 

Conclusion of Jubilee Year of Redemption, 1935, 420 

Conditions for complete forgiveness on, 699, 1 1 09 

Deeds of mercy along with, 742 

Desire of Jesus for, 49, 299 

Goodness of God and, 458 

Healing and strengthening needy souls on, 99 

Heart of Jesus rejoices in, 998 

Importance to Our Lord of, 1517 

Inspires trust, 570 

“Last Hope” of salvation, 965, 687, 998, 1228 
Neglect of, 341 

Refuge and shelter for all, especially poor sinners, 699 

Sunday after Easter as the Feast of Mercy, 49, 88, 280, 299, 420, 570, 699, 742 

HOUR OF GREAT MERCY 

Request of Jesus 

to practice daily certain devotions at, 1572 
to implore mercy especially for sinners at, 1 320, 1 572 
Promises attached to, 1320, 1572 
Vision of Jesus Crucified at, 648 



433 




IMAGE OF THE DIVINE MERCY 

Blessing of, 49, 341 

Cause of ecstasy, 1 1 299-1 300 

Confessor’s advice about painting, 49 

Disappointment in painting of, 313 

Display of on First Sunday after Easter, 88 

Effect of, 1 379 

Exposition of, in church, 570 

Fathers Andrasz and Sopocko at feet of, 675 

Gaze of Jesus from, 326 

Greatness of, 313 

In Faustina’s soul, 49 

Inscription on, 47 

clarification of, 327 
concerns about, 88 
Manner of painting of, 49 
Obligation to paint, 154 
On Feast of Corpus Christi, 441 
Part of entire work of Mercy, 1 54 
Prayer connected with, 187 
Prayerful poem on, 1 

Promises attached to veneration of, 48, 570 

Promulgation of, 47 

Public veneration of, 41 4, 742 

Rays of Mercy on, 50 

explanation of the red and pale rays on, 299 

extending to dying man - with peaceful death following, 1565 

from Heart of Christ dying on the Cross, 41 4 

from Host in Monstrance, 336, 344, 657, 1046 

from Image, 540 

from Image to Host in Monstrance, covering the whole world, 441 
from Monstrance, filling the church, 370 
from Sacred Heart, 177, 1796 
on Feast of The Divine Mercy, 420 
spreading over entire world, 87 
Reminder to do works of mercy, 742 
Request from Jesus to paint, 1 , 47 
Responsibility to paint, 154 
Signature on, 47 
Source of, 47, 67 
Throne of divine Mercy, 1 
Triumph of Divine Mercy and, 1789 
Veneration of, source of many graces, 742 
Vessel of graces, 327 
Vision of, 

and rays on Low Sunday, 420 
come alive, 416, 417, 851 
over chapel in Vilnius, 87 



434 




MARY, MOTHER OF GOD 

Advice of Jesus to Faustina to ask Mary for help in temptations, 1560 
at Shrine in Czestochowa, 160 
waiting during Advent, 793 
Gift of purity, 40 

Strengthens Faustina in suffering, 25 
Teaches Faustina 

abandonment to the Will of God, 1437 

about the interior life with Jesus, especially in Holy Communion, 840 
how to live for God, 620 
to commune with God, 454 
Tells Faustina 

of new congregation to prepare world for the second coming, 625 
of the seven daggers that pierced Her Fleart, 786 
to prepare world for the second coming, 635 
Visions to Sister Faustina, 
encouraging her, 449 
exhorting her 

to pray for Poland, 325 
to offer vows for Poland, 468 
interceding for Poland, 1261 
Jesus and Mary, 88, 330 
at Ostrabrama, 529 

in a small chapel which became big temple, 561 
Jesus, Mary, and Joseph, 608, 846, 1442 
Mary and Child, 677, 846 
Mary and confessor, 330, 597 
Mary as Mother of God of Priests, 1585 
of priest who loves Mary, 806 

on Feast of the immaculate Conception, 564, 805, 1414-1415 

on Feast of the Ascension, 1711 

on Feast of the Assumption, 1244 

preparing her for deeper interior life with Jesus, 785 

rays streaming from Her Heart, 33 

visiting Purgatory, 20 

warning of sufferings, 316 

with pierced heart, protecting Poland from punishment, 686 

MERCY 

Excludes no one, 1182 
Flowing from Wounds of Christ, 1 1 90 
God as, 281, 1148 
Greatest attribute of God, 301 
Hour of, 1320, 1572 
King of, 83, 88, 367, 378 
Knowledge of mercy saves, 1396 
Work of Jesus not Faustina, 1 667 



435 




NOVENA 

Before Feast of Mercy, 1059, 1209-1229 
Of chaplets 

before Feast of Mercy, 796 
to obtain Divine Mercy for Poland, 714 
Of prayer, “O Blood and Water....” 33 times for Holy Father, 341 

PENANCE 

(See SACRAMENT OF RECONCILIATION) 

PREACHING ABOUT THE DIVINE MERCY 

By priests, 50 

By priests on the Feast of Mercy, 570 

Mysterious strength for priests to convert sinners, 1521 

Neglect of, 341 

To the whole world, 300 

PROCLAMATION OF GOD’S MERCY 

Exhortation of Jesus to Faustina about the, 1 64, 300, 687, 1 074, 1142, 11 90, 1 396, 
1521, 1665, 1666 

Graces promised to proclaimers, 377, 378, 379, 1075, 1540 
Insufficiency of, 1273 

SACRAMENT of RECONCILIATION 

Advice of Jesus 

to Faustina on, 1602, 1725 
for souls who wish to benefit from, 1 1 3, 1 32, 1 784 
Condition for receiving mercy and forgiveness, 300, 699, 1108 
Fountain of mercy, 1602 
Meeting place of jesus and souls, 1 602 
Miracle of Divine Mercy, 225, 1448 
Preaching about Divine Mercy and, 1521 
Tribunal of Mercy, 975, 1448 
Trust and, 1602 

SECOND COMING 

Blessed Virgin, Faustina and, 635 
Deeds of mercy and, 1 1 58 
Nearness of, 965 
Prayer of Faustina for, 1 570 
Signs of, 

Days of darkness, 83 

Divine Mercy preparation for, 848, 1 1 46, 1 588 

THREE O’CLOCK P.M. 

(See HOUR OF GREAT MERCY) 

TRUST 

Image and words, “Jesus I trust in You,” as vessel for graces, 327 
Jesus and lack of, 50, 300, 379, 1076, 1447 



436 




Lack of, in chosen souls, 731 

Measure of generosity dependent on, 548, 1602 

Omnipotence of, 1777 

Opens door to immensity of graces, 1 074 

Peaceful death guaranteed by, 1520, 1798 

Power of soul of, 198 

Prayer of, 84, 187 

Vessel for obtaining graces, 1485, 1578 

TRUST IN MERCY 

Chaplet means of obtaining, 1797 
Condition for a good confession, 1602 
Desire of Jesus for His creatures to, 718, 1059 

To grant inconceivable graces to souls who, 687 
Faustina to urge all souls to, 294, 1 059, 1 1 82 
Faustina’s, 283 

Faustina’s “mission” to convince people to, 1452 
Greatest sinners have priority to, 723, 1146 
Guarantee of peaceful death 
by, 1520 

by encouraging others to, 1 540 
Jesus and souls who, 

calls them most fortunate, 1273 
delights to work in them, 1784 
gives them priority to His mercy, 1541 
loves them, 294, 453, 1541 
promises all things to them, 294, 453 
Jesus and lack of, 300, 379 
Justification of soul dependent on, 570 
Mercy received by souls who, 420 
Need of, 1577, 1777 

Obtainable through Sister Faustina, 1777 
Requisite for advancing in perfection, 1578 
Requisite for peace for mankind, 300 
Reward of, 

salvation, 723 
sanctity, 1784 

Source of graces, 1577, 1777 
Souls and, 1577, 1578 

WORK OF MERCY 

Effect on souls, 1379 

Father Sopocko and, 421, 1608 

Faustina and, 1 54, 281 , 1 401 , 1 530, 1 643, 1 644 

Future results of, 1300 

Linked with work of Redemption, 89 

Ways to take part in, 1 1 55-1 1 58 

Work of Jesus, 1667 



437 